see to walk us through it so mark I just
want to first get you to talk about
anything big that you're saying that's
coming out of this maybe anything
surprising or super significant and just
sort of what our primary voters looking
for most in the candidate do we know
that yet
yeah Savannah let's actually start with
what you just said well who are they
what are they looking for and in
Michigan and this is the prize of the
night UNIP having 57% of democratic
primary voters saying the most important
thing to them is a Democratic nominee
who can be President Trump now that
shouldn't be all that surprising if
you've been covering this race over the
past year but what is interesting is
that Joe Biden the previous contest is
usually over performed with these types
of voters versus Bernie Sanders who's
usually done better with the voters who
end up saying that a candidate who
agrees with them on the issues is the
most important thing in Savanna is just
not in Michigan also in Missouri and in
Washington state we end up having about
6 and 10 or higher voters who end up
saying that beating Trump is their
number one concern and what they're
looking for most from a candidate
absolutely that is quite staggering to
see that much of a split there in those
three states that you mentioned so now
let's talk a little bit about race and
the role that that's going to play in
the six states that are voting today we
know historically former Vice President
Biden has had strong support from black
voters is that what we're seeing do we
have any information on exit polls on
that so we're not gonna break out the
splits on how Biden and Bernie Sanders
are actually doing it would
demographically but I can't actually
walk you through with these electorates
look like right now and again let's
start with Michigan where we end up
having 72 percent of the Democratic
electorate is white versus 18 percent
that is African American and in 2016
Hillary Clinton did much better among
african-american Democratic primary
voters in Michigan and Bernie Sanders
did better with white Democratic primary
voters Butland then let's look in
Mississippi which is a very different
electorate than in Michigan were you end
up having 64 percent of the electorate
that is African American versus 31%
that's white that African American and
percentage is actually a little bit less
what we ended up staying back in 2016
but so far this is the most
african-american oriented electorate of
the Democratic primary season in the
state of Mississippi we'll just have to
see
what that's going to do for Biden later
on tonight Mark Washington also heading
to the polls today and of course it's
one of the state's hardest hit by the
coronavirus now we know that they have
mostly they have moved to mail-in voting
and they were a conference now there are
primary what impact is that having
though that the state is really sort of
focused on that public health crisis
yeah according to the exit polls in
Washington State you have 82 percent of
Democratic primary voters saying that
they are concerned about coronavirus
that's actually gone on and it's evenly
divided between those who say that they
are very concerned versus those who are
somewhat concern but you can definitely
tell it's on their minds in Savannah you
mentioned about the mail-in aspect to
voting in Washington State everyone gets
a ballot sent to their home they're
allowed to mail it in that probably
gives you a whole lot more flexibility
than going to your normal polling side
in Washington State you can just drop
off your mail ballot in particular drop
as centers or mail that in and again
that gives you a whole lot of
flexibility and you don't have to go to
a polling place to vote they are allowed
to mail it in but they are not supposed
to lick the envelope I know fear of the
spread of coronavirus thank you so much
mark I'm sure we'll be checking in with
you throughout the night
thanks Savannah for more on what we're
learning from the exit polls we're
bringing an NBC News national political
reporter Steve Kornacki voting still
going on in these states for getting our
first look here and what the electorate
looks like today in some of these big
primaries have take you through some of
the things we're finding first of all
here take a look this is Mississippi one
of the states up tonight you see here in
the exit poll just of what the
electorate looks like in Mississippi
almost two thirds black according this
exit poll that is the biggest number we
have seen yet in any state that's voted
in South Carolina the previous high the
number was 57 it's 64% here in
Mississippi of course we've seen the
struggles that Bernie Sanders has had in
building support with black voters we
saw earlier this week he had that event
in Mississippi that he canceled to go up
and campaign in Michigan so you see the
number here in Mississippi this has
we've seen in other places spell trouble
for Sanders we will see what that means
as the results come in tonight two other
big states voting tonight Maas
here at 17% black as the electorate here
again this was actually the closest
state in the 2016 primary Sanders versus
Clinton he lost to Clinton by about
1,500 votes here
17% black and if you take a look in
Michigan here the electorate 18 percent
black notably Michigan in 2016 it had
the highest share of black voters of any
state that Sanders won this number was
actually 21 percent in 2016 remember
Sanders won Michigan narrowly there is
no state in 2016 that had a higher
concentration of black voters but Bernie
Sanders was able to win in so we'll keep
an eye on that tonight and the other
divide we're gonna keep an eye on here
demographically this is among the white
voters in these states Missouri and
Michigan in particular that college not
that non college College divided one of
the key ingredients for Sanders and
being able to win states and be
competitive with Hillary Clinton through
the primary season in 2016 it was strong
support boy Green was not a good choice
here with strong support from non
college white voters see a big chunk of
the electric this is Missouri you're
looking at here also you look in
Michigan 37% of the electorate they're
non college white is the inners was
winning this group by double digits
against Hillary Clinton last time around
we're gonna be keeping a close eye re as
these numbers come in is he able to do
that again or has there been some
slippage Joe Biden is looking to repeat
his Super Tuesday surge but no matter
what we see tonight his campaign has
already canceled their primary night
rally in Cleveland Ohio out of an
abundance of caution due to the
coronavirus NBC News political reporter
Ali Vitali is in Cleveland and joins us
now hi Ali so first let's just start
with what's the campaign saying about
this cancellation well look this is the
first time that we've seen 20/20
campaign events canceled because of the
corona virus outbreak and prior to
tonight when both Bernie Sanders and Joe
Biden had to cancel their rallies here
in Cleveland we knew that the campaigns
had been in touch with local health
officials on the ground wherever they
were campaigning then flash forward to
tonight the Republican governor here
putting out a tweet saying that he was
saying that you probably shouldn't be
gathering in indoor spaces with large
numbers of people the Bernie Sanders
campaign
went first saying they were canceling
their event the senator flying back to
Burlington Vermont then the Joe Biden
campaign quickly after that saying they
were cancelling their event here
Biden now going to address media on this
eventful night from Philadelphia
Pennsylvania where his campaign is
headquartered and really I think that
this is just another moment in his 2020
campaign where campaigns have been
forced to figure out how to creatively
campaign with circumstances out of their
control first it was senators being
stuck in Washington DC for impeachment
now it's coronavirus and this public
health outbreak and what that could mean
for the campaign trail because I think
we're entering a whole new phase this is
campaigning in the age of coronavirus
Savannah absolutely house the Biden
campaign actually said anything about
that sort of addressing the fact that
big rallies and events are a huge part
of campaigns and sort of needing to get
creative with how they're going to reach
voters if not at in-person events look I
think it's a new reality and all they
said for tonight is that everything is
going to be done on a case by case basis
that's what these campaigns including
the Sanders campaign have been saying
for the last couple of weeks and so I
think this is how they go forward now
case by case state by state county by
county assessing with local health
officials if it's safe and if it's
prudent to be doing these kinds of
campaign events that really are you're
right the bread and butter of
campaigning for president absolutely now
can you just give us a quick snapshot of
how the Biden campaign is feeling going
into tonight what are they expecting out
of these states look Savannah you heard
Steve Kornacki talking about that large
number of black voters voting in places
like Mississippi and Missouri those are
the states that the Biden campaign is
looking at with confidence they know
what black voters have been able to do
to Joe Biden's candidacy supercharging
him in places like South Carolina
helping him push himself over the finish
line and two wins in several states
across the board on Super Tuesday last
week what they're hoping for is that
those states in the South can do that
again of course you look at another
state that's on the map tonight
Washington State that's a place where
Bernie Sanders did really really well in
2016 but of course the big State tonight
is Michigan you heard mark Murray
talking about it not just because that's
where the delegates are for tonight but
because that's a state that Democrats
are really looking at for 2020 in the
general election a place where President
Trump did well a place where President
Trump hopes to do well again but
also a place that has counties like
Macomb County where we've seen
potentially more moderate Republican
voters shying away from President Trump
those are the kinds of voters that
Democrats are hoping to pick up in the
2020 general election and frankly it's
places like tonight where we're gonna
look and we're gonna see these
candidates whoever ends up winning there
are going to have an argument to make
looking forward looking forward to the
general election on how they did in
Michigan not to mention it gets them one
delegate closer delegate by delegate
closer to actually clinching the
nomination awesome thank you so much for
joining us on a busy night Ali the
Sanders campaign also canceled its rally
in Ohio tonight out of caution NBC News
political reporter Josh Letterman is in
Cleveland Ohio so Josh now if the
Sanders campaign is not having this
rally where are they tonight what are
they doing since it's been called off
well Bernie Sanders himself on an
airplane right now flying back to
Burlington Vermont to his home after the
rally here in Cleveland was scrapped at
the last minute along with that Joe
Biden rally because of coronavirus
concerns here in Cleveland shock and
disappointment among the Bernie Sanders
supporters volunteers that we spoke with
who were lined up ready to go into the
convention center are right behind me
when they got word some by text message
others from us from the media who had
showed up and had gotten an early word
from the campaign that this was no
longer happening people who had driven
from all across the state to spend the
evening with Bernie Sanders but as Ali
was just saying this is going to be the
new normal the Sanders campaign saying
that they made this decision after a
tweet from the governor here Mike DeWine
who had tweeted that he was urging
indoor sporting events not to be held in
the midst of these concerns that tweet
made its way to Bernie Sanders himself
and he personally made the decision that
at this point he did not want to hold
the event we are told and the Sanders
campaign telling us as he's flying back
to Vermont tonight that they're not sure
about future events just like the Biden
campaign they're gonna take it
case-by-case as they continue to discuss
with public health officials what makes
the most sense going for
Josh from those people that you saw that
had been lining up what was their
reaction to this was at mostly
disappointment that had been canceled or
were they concerned about coronavirus
and thought okay well maybe I shouldn't
be in this crowd people generally
understood that people were acting out
of an abundance of caution I needed to
do this there was disappointment and
some concern about how this is going to
particularly affect a campaign like
Bernie Sanders because he has been
placing such an emphasis on these
massive rallies where he's able to get
11 12 13 thousand people as opposed to
the retail politicking that kind of
lends itself to Joe Biden Bernie Sanders
doesn't really do that this is his venue
and if he's not able to bring these
massive crowds out to rally in support
of him that's gonna really have to
change the way that he runs his campaign
going forward yeah they're gonna have to
get a little bit creative let's switch
over to voting tonight so Michigan is
seen as this critical test for Sanders
for his hope for the White House his
campaign even calls it a narrative
changing state why is that why so much
emphasis there well there's a lot of
history here for Bernie Sanders after he
pulled off an upset win against Hillary
Clinton in the primary here four years
ago the Sanders campaign says they're
hopeful but they're not quite predicting
he's gonna be able to pull off that once
again the polls showing he's currently
quite a bit behind but Joe Biden in the
polls leading up to today but it's gonna
be a really critical contest in Michigan
in particular for him for a couple
reasons part of it is about the
african-american vote that he's been
unable so far to really win in the south
but there's also a lot of black voters
here in the Midwest the Sanders campaign
will be looking to see whether he's able
to do better with african-americans in
the Midwest than he is in the south and
the other element of this Savannah every
time Bernie Sanders is asked what is the
math that gets a socialist elected
president in America he says look I'm
gonna bring in all of these new young
voters into the process for the first
time so far we have not seen that in the
contests that have happened up until now
but whether he's able to bring new
people into the process in states like
Michigan in states like Ohio and Indiana
these Midwest states that are coming up
is
gonna be really critical to whether
Democrats are able to win this in the
fall absolutely we'll have to see if
they do come out so Biden already lead
Sanders and delegate counts
what is the Sanders campaign doing to
slow Biden's momentum how are they
feeling about that
yeah and that's part of the reason he
needs a win tonight at least in Michigan
he needs to be able to show that he
still has some support some momentum
because the last couple weeks really
have been trending in Joe Biden's
direction and that's why the Bernie
Sanders campaign in addition to
canceling several events in other states
to make sure he had more time to spend
in Michigan has also been deploying
their best in the brightest of his
surrogates congresswoman aoc
congresswoman Rashida to leave from
Michigan as well as Danny Glover other
entertainment figures really fanning out
across the country to try to show that
there still is momentum and excitement
behind the Bernie Sanders campaign
alright Josh thank you so much thanks
for keeping us posted on all that good
luck tonight
NBC's County to County Election Series
is focusing on five key counties across
America that could be bellwethers in the
2020 presidential election tonight we're
looking at Kent County where President
Trump won in 2016 by just over 10,000
votes
dasha Byrnes is with me from Grand
Rapids dasha are a year where it's all
happening you've been spending time with
voters today what can you tell us about
what you're hearing from Democrats hey
Savannah well I just heard Josh
Letterman talk about Sanders big upset
victory here in Michigan in the 2016
primary and whether or not he can do
that again as top of mind for the
campaign but it's also top of mind for
voters here who are trying to figure out
that exact electability question and
back in the 2016 primary Bernie Sanders
carried this county by a big margin with
an in 2016 Donald Trump one ken county
and so voters here are trying to figure
out who is a candidate that can get Kent
County back that can get Michigan back
and they're wrestling with that idea of
what to prioritize is it electability or
is it a candidate that more closely
matches their their views and their
ideology so take a listen to a little
bit of what we heard in our kind
stations with voters here today I asked
if you were comfortable sharing with us
who you voted for I voted for Bernie he
was not my initial choice I was going to
vote for Elizabeth Warren but in light
of her dropping out I went with the next
progressive option do you think he can
win Michigan he did it in 2016 in that
primary do you think he can do it again
I'm not entirely certain I think that
there's a lot of momentum for for Joe
Biden at this particular moment I think
that he is also a strong candidate if he
is who ends up winning the nomination I
won't be upset about that and just I
mean the race changed so quickly you
know a week ago were you expecting that
you would be able to look for Warren
today I did and you know and I've
changed from Harris to Warren you know
I've gone through devolution
Bernie and it feels more of a City
choice as opposed to Biden feels more
like this suburban choice it just saying
it's a safety choice in some ways not
that what Sanders is going for is
radical but I do think that people right
now are scared
and so I think that people are gonna go
towards item just for the for the
feeling of safety well I'm a new dad
I've got two young kids so obviously a
lot of what I what I vote for is
thinking of the future thinking of their
lives and how policies that are going to
be enacted now are going to affect them
and can I ask who who do you think is
the best Shepherd for their future
Bernie Sanders 100% all the way and I
just think that overall he's he's our
best bet to beat Donald Trump who do you
think is best positioned to be dominated
by Joe Biden why Joe Biden I just think
he has the experience and the the
calming effect
I see Bernie and he seems like an angry
angry old man and
he some of the stuff he talks about in
the way he acts strikes me just being
like Trump and Savannah we heard similar
sentiment from other voters we talked to
as well the the Biden voters really
thinking about electability when casting
their ballots and the Bernie Sanders
voters thinking about who they think who
moreso aligns with their views and even
the people who did vote for Sanders
today a lot of them conceded that they
still think it's probably gonna go
Biden's way here today they're looking
at the polls and they're sort of making
those assumptions of course we don't
know what's gonna happen but they say
they want to still vote for the
candidate that they believe in versus
prioritizing electability like we're
hearing from so many other voters
definitely will be interesting to see if
that sort of that trend that you are
hearing from borders continues because
we did just hear earlier from mark
Murray who actually said that 57% of
those Democratic voters place more
importance on if the candidate can beat
Donald Trump than if they really aligned
with them which is kind of interesting
that that's the way it's going
how has voter turnout then today have
you seen any long lines or anything like
that no long lines but a steady flow and
we've been popping in and out of that
room they're checking in on numbers last
week checked just over 400 ballots cast
today in person but there's this added
element of absentee ballots there have
been 220 absentee ballots cast for this
precinct so altogether that brings us to
over 600 ballots cast compare that to to
2016 there were over 800 ballots cast
here but remember in 2016 there was a
contest on both sides here is really
just on the Democratic side and so that
brings the turnout percent and this
precinct to about 35% was just pretty
significant it was 50% in 2016 but again
for one sided contest here 35% at this
time is it's still pretty pretty
significant Savannah and you mentioned
those absentee votes we've been hearing
about a delay with those what can you
tell us yeah so as of last year when the
new Secretary of State took office they
expanded the options for voters to allow
anyone who wants to to mail to vote by
mail and
ballot which which might be part of the
reason we're seeing pretty significant
turnout in absentee ballots cast here
but it also means it might take a while
to count those because by Michigan law
even though the majority of those
ballots have been sent back so people
have sent in their their absentee
ballots but they cannot begin to open
and count those until the day of the
election so even though a lot of those
ballots were sent before today they
couldn't actually start that counting
until this morning so that just could
potentially slow down the process
about a million absentee ballots were
sent out by this the state of Michigan
over 800,000 of them have been sent back
but that's gonna take take a little time
to do all that counting savanah
yes we've gotten used to waiting a
little bit during at this primary and
caucuses and Dasha Bern in Michigan the
story of the tornado is primary exactly
Dasha burns in Michigan 125 delegates up
for grabs tonight thanks for joining us
[Music]
tonight the racists down to the top two
candidates with contest since six states
with a clear front-runner emerge NBC
News Capitol Hill correspondent Casey
Hutt and our road warriors bring you all
the results special coverage begins
tonight at 8:00 Eastern on NBC News now
today is so exciting to be here we are
serving up a today cafe special
we have just loved seeing your beautiful
shining faces how sweet is that
need your true crime fix on the go
Dateline episodes are available as
podcasts mysteries with a twist from the
true crime original Wow
listen to Dateline wherever you get your
podcasts you're watching NBC News now
we've got some breaking news this is the
Lions got laugh he brought more to the
caucuses news made for your streaming
world live weekdays 3:00 to 11:00 p.m.
Eastern
[Music]
we've got this fundamental thing about
human beings and then we've got the way
that we constitute our politics and the
danger is that if our politics grow to
tribal then we'll lose this sort of way
of talking why is this happening with
chris hayes subscribe now
[Music]
the coronavirus task force headed up by
Vice President Mike Pence says federal
health officials are working with States
and commercial labs to provide
coronavirus tests to everyone that needs
one we've made great progress over the
last week and million tests are in the
field every state lab in America can do
coronavirus tests if you if you're
concerned that you have corona virus
your doctor can contact the state lab
can have a test processed by the end of
this week another four million tests
will be distributed meanwhile the
president met with congressional leaders
in an effort to hammer out some plans
for fiscal stimulus to offset the
effects of corona virus NBC News White
House correspondent Kristen Welker has
the details from the White House hi
Savannah good evening to you the
president and this administration are
working to calm the fears on Main Street
and on Wall Street about coronavirus in
a briefing late today the vice president
saying that by the end of this week
there will be more than four million
tests available all around the country
and a million are already in place but
leading NIH dr. Anthony foul she
underscored seniors and Americans with
pre-existing conditions need to take
serious precautions
pouchy saying quote it doesn't matter if
you're in a state that has no case or
one case take seriously what you can do
now that if and when the infections will
come and they will come sorry to say sad
to say they will that's a quote from
Falchi meanwhile earlier today the
president personally pitched Republican
senators on his ideas to bolster the
economy on Capitol Hill according to
administration and Senate sources among
the measures he floated a payroll tax
cut through the end of the year and
expanding paid family leave but the
president could be on a collision course
with Democrats who argue a tax cut would
not help everyone now the president did
not provide any information about when a
plan will be finalized her how much it
will cost only saying he'll announce
more details soon Savannah
89 delegates are up for grabs in today's
Washington State presidential primary
and the state is also one of the hardest
hit by the coronavirus now Washington
just happens to vote entirely by mail
but it is still taking extra precaution
Steve Patterson is with me from Renton
Washington hey Steve thanks so much for
joining us mr. vennum Washington has the
highest number of deaths from
coronavirus in the nation walk us
through the precautions the state is
taking with this primary happening today
so first of all there were a number of
things that thankfully happened well
before this outbreak even started one is
the decision to have a vote by mail
election which means essentially there's
a long window of time that voters can
just simply choose who they want and
then send their ballots in by mail
that's huge
the second thing is that for one of the
first times that the delegates are being
assigned by primary instead of caucus
for a long time this was a caucus date
and if you've ever seen a caucus which I
think you have some in it that is a lot
of people congregating into small spaces
it would be terrible maybe even
disastrous for an election like this and
so what's happening now is that on the
back end of things they're trying to
keep workers safe there's a state
campaign that says healthier sick don't
lik they're talking about ballots so
they want people to use a sponge use
like a wet cloth anything to seal the
ballot so it doesn't infect the envelope
because we still don't know how long
coronavirus sticks to surfaces that's
how little we know about the virus the
envelopes are then cut open by machine
and if you see workers here we're in the
headquarters for King County which is
like a third of the votes in this state
they're all wearing gloves meanwhile you
have the operation you can see this
sorting is happening by Machine this is
sort of a third pass that they're doing
but obviously checks for redundancies it
checks to make sure that the party is
are correct and matched up with the
voting and all of this again is done
with gloves and you know very safely so
the health and safety of the worker at
this point because everything is done by
mail is sort of more paramount and by
the talks we've had with election
officials that is like the number one
they're concerned about so so far it's
been good and also I want to talk about
turnout just spoke to an election
official who said that turnout and that
participation already olds will 40%
that's huge this could be a record
turnout in the middle of this
coronavirus outbreak so everything's
just sort of fell together election
officials have made good decisions the
party going with the primary all of
these things are working so that people
can actually see the democracy in action
and it's not sort of overshadowed by
this virus which obviously everybody is
so worried about Savannah right that's
great to hear Steve so of course as you
mentioned something like the Iowa caucus
lots of people in a room also at the
Iowa caucus this year we had issues with
getting that vote count back in time so
I want to talk about this voting process
in Washington what are the methods that
the state is using to ensure that every
vote is accurately counted do you think
we're really going to have a winner
tonight when do you think we'll hear
yeah so take a walk with me first of all
I mean there's multiple redundancies
Ryan speaking to election officials
there's the Machine which is huge
there's computers and I've been told
that they're security both obviously of
this building but also cybersecurity is
paramount so they have multiple
redundancies up with that but also I
mean everything everything is not only
checked by computer but it's also
checked by an we were in a room just too
long ago unfortunately it's a lunch
break right now it's noon here but
everything that was counted by machine
was also counted by hand and counted
that process as you mentioned is going
to take some time the polls close here
at 8 o'clock tonight our time but if
you're looking at the East Coast that's
11 o'clock so results are going to take
a while not only that but all the
polling that we've seen with Sanders
invitin seems to have it neck to neck
the closer it is the harder it is to get
clear results so this could take maybe
another day maybe days even we will get
initial partial results by the end of
tonight and we'll be able to report
something but whether it's definitive or
not that remains to be seen it could be
a while before we know absolutely and
Steve I just want to talk to you also
because I know even in Washington quite
a
covering coronavirus of course now
you're there for the primary as well but
can you just talk to me a little bit
about I know you're from Kirkland at
that nursing home what sort of the
latest with how people are feeling how
family members they're feeling what's
just the latest on the virus in the
state it's an incredibly difficult
situation not only at the nursing home
just across King County I mean you can
you can feel the apprehension in the
street you know in certain places where
you've been to Seattle before where it's
quiet where it shouldn't be you can feel
the tension you know even when you're at
a restaurant I will say that that a lot
of work is being done to make people
feel safe the Public Safety Department
the governor is almost addressing
problems daily the governor just had
another press conference today where he
announced more precautions and really
safety features for workers who may be
calling off sick that is one thing that
they're encouraging people to do if you
feel anything all out of work obviously
things like wash your hands don't touch
your face we've been hearing that for a
long time now but the Public Safety
Department simply telling people over 60
pregnant underlying health conditions to
stay away from crowds and even public
places that's something that is being
observed just giving an eyeball on the
street as far as the nursing home I mean
most of the deaths that we've had in the
state have come from this one source
family members just want information
about what's happening but it's
spreading so quickly and it kills so
fast that workers are having to keep up
it's a terrible situation but they're
doing their best it's a benefit and
absolutely is well thank you for keeping
us updated see right now we're tracking
the Mississippi primary with an eye on
black women voters they're a crucial
voting bloc that has long been seen as
the most consistent in turnout and party
loyalty NBC News correspondent Rehema
Ellis is on the ground in Jackson
Mississippi for us
hey Rehema thank you so much for joining
us so what is this key demographic
telling you about who they're gonna vote
for well the word is that that vote will
go for Biden's Oh
this time around as you remember in the
2016 Hillary Clinton won the lion's
share of the Democratic primary vote
here in Mississippi
Bernie Sanders came in at about 16 and a
half percent it's expected again that
Biden will take it Sanders hasn't spent
a lot of time here in Mississippi
essentially it seems like he's conceded
that vote if you will to Biden as you
talked about in 2016 7 and 10 Democratic
primary voters in Mississippi were black
and black women made up almost half of
the state's Democratic party electorate
a powerful gloating voting bloc one
woman we talked to here earlier she said
that she was voting for Biden she hadn't
made up her mind until just the last few
days it was a consideration between of
course Bernie and Bernie Sanders and Joe
Biden and finally it came down to Biden
for her a gentleman I spoke to here also
had the same kind of thing that he was
saying in fact he said they have
conversations with their family they get
on the phone they talk about who they're
going to vote for and they went back and
forth on the pros and cons and they
finally decided as a family that they're
voting for providing but again as you
point out black women are expected to be
a critical bloc for voters tonight and
particularly voting for Joe Biden and
we'll see if they help Biden carry more
of the South just like he did during
Super Tuesday
absolutely it's interesting to hear you
say that Bernie Sanders has basically
conceded it to Joe Biden it does feel
like that in a lot of ways now during
the competitive 2019 midterms African
American turnout in Mississippi was
weaker than expected I know it's a
little early to determine turnout but is
there a feeling of enthusiasm there that
people do want to go vote today we have
to wait and see certainly people coming
here are enthusiastic about it you know
one of the things that's happening here
you don't have early voting in the
primary here in Mississippi but certain
of course people can vote by absentee
ballot those ballots had to be turned in
by yesterday so we have yet to see
exactly what this turn I was going to be
it has not been heavy here at this
polling location but it has been steady
those poll Watchers here inside they
tell us that they think that around the
time that people get off from work we'll
see more activity here because right now
people are at work and in the morning
they just put their
energy on getting to work and maybe
they'll put some energy on getting here
to the poll this polling place after the
work hours we'll see but there is an
enthusiasm here people want to see
what's going to happen in the final
analysis of all of it and as you're
asking and we're watching to see exactly
how that vote comes down as far as who
black women are voting for then a very
powerful bloc of voters here in the
Mississippi area and consistently
throughout the south definitely now
there are also some interesting down
ballot races to watch in Jackson today
who should we be keeping our eye on one
big one and that is Mike SB you know
that he ran for that Senate seat that
was vacated by fat chocolate Cochran
back in 2018 it was very close it ended
up in a runoff election and he now that
there was just that Senate seat was
being filled for just a short time that
was two years now they're back at it and
he wants to try to be the one that can
take that scene he's got two opponents
in this Democratic primary it's expected
that SP is going to do well and become
the Democratic contender again we'll
have to see what the voters have to say
about all of that we'll know I think
pretty early on once the polls close
whether or not SP has been victorious
tonight and we'll end up once again
running against running again for that
Senate seat come November absolutely
thank you so much for he meant for
keeping an eye on these important races
for us the Dow surged more than 1100
points in late trading making up some of
the losses from yesterday's historic
sell-off David Gura is with me from the
New York Stock Exchange David there's
obviously a lot to talk about that's
going on down there so yesterday we have
this like emergency switch shut off and
then we started positive sinks again now
we're back up what's going on what do we
have tribute this rebound - yeah
yesterday was a crazy day to be sure he
saw where markets ended up yesterday
losses we hadn't seen since 2008 so what
happened here his investors took a pause
took a deep breath overnight this
morning we saw markets really rise when
the day got started and then there was
this sort of pervasive uncertainty about
the health of the markets throughout the
day
so there wasn't a whole lot of what's
called conviction in the market today
it's not go up and down up and down the
president spoke right around lunchtime
the Dow began to drop or at that point
in time as he spoke with healthcare
executives vaguely about what some plans
might be rose here at the end of the day
so folks generally feeling like maybe it
was a bit over sold yesterday fell more
than it needed to but it's that sense
there might be more certainty to come
seeing the president go up to Capitol
Hill talking slightly more concrete
terms about what plans seen the Congress
have that that gave him some reason for
hope well that is good to hear so as
you're saying the president keeps
talking about lowering interest rates
what more can the Fed do so the feds
hands are kind of tied here they've
lowered rates a lot last week just a
week ago from today the Fed did this
emergency rate cut of half a basis point
and that's something that was pretty
extraordinary done after a meeting with
other finance leaders from around the
world and so they pushed interest rates
pretty low there's a lot of talk about
the feds toolkit what it has in its
disposal a lot of that has to do with
being able to write a raise and lower
interest rates now they are pretty low
at this point so there are things that
it can do there's a meeting coming up
next week when it's likely to cut rates
once again but there's been a lot of
focus at least on the president's part
on that on monetary policy on interest
rates the conversation seems to be
drifting more toward fiscal policy that
is what the Congress but the
administration can do to help consumers
who might be in dire straits here as
this virus continues to spread mm-hmm
now let's talk
so that also rebounded today after a
total bloodbath yesterday but why is
that considered good news I think from a
consumer perspective a lot of times it
just seems like it's good for gas to be
cheap what's so fascinating here is
there is and rightly so so much focus
Savannah on the coronavirus the
uncertainty surrounding all of that but
there are other externalities in the
global economy that are still hugely
important to investors the election is
one thing having a primary today and in
the oil market and over the weekend we
saw a price war break out between Russia
and Saudi Arabia for a long time just to
explain this in kind of simple terms
countries around the world that sort of
work together to keep prices at a pretty
stable point keeping an eye on the
United States which has incredibly cheap
oil now because of all the drilling that
we've seen here all the shale drilling
that we've seen here in the US this
weekend we saw those two sides sort of
say forget it
we're going to
produce more oil we're gonna drag prices
down just a little bit that's worrisome
to those who watch the oil market I'm
looking at the board here now WTI West
West Texas Intermediate Oil is up a
little bit today but $34 a barrel is
still way less than what it was and oil
is important Savannah for two reasons
one is it gives you a sense of the
health of the global economy and seeing
it lower isn't really a great sign the
other thing is it's it's tied into
credit it's tied into bonds and lending
and yes the United States is now
producing so much oil but they've been
able to do that because they've taken
out loans and they've sold bonds and the
cheaper oil gets the more worried
creates one of those who've lent out
that money worried they're not gonna get
their investment back so as you said not
a lot of conviction in the market
yesterday but we're hearing more stable
things from the president is this sort
of why we're getting this advice to not
just panic when the markets selling off
so hard if you're in it for the long
term it's hard to time a volatile market
far be it for me to offer investment
advice but that is always the soundest
advice that you hear over and over and
over again it's best to take a long-term
perspective and that urge to stay calm
is something that we've heard from
investors we've heard from lawmakers we
for policy makers as well so yes I think
that is the best guidance and I will say
over these last 24 hours you have seen
lawmakers and policy makers doing all
the right things they're having these
meetings they're being public about
what's going on they're talking about
policy proposals that could have an
impact here there was a huge meeting
today of the regulators from this
country from all branches of regulators
with the president United States so at
least those meetings are taking place
and the fact that they're checking the
right boxes it's something that
engenders a lot more optimism in the
health of the economy of easily what
they're doing economically definitely
hopefully more optimism to come thank
you so much David
thanks Benham tonight
the race is down to the top two
candidates with contests in six states
with a clear front-runner emerge NBC
News Capitol Hill correspondent Casey
Hutt and our road warriors bring you all
the results special coverage begins two
at Bebe's turn on NBC News now white
terrorism
and white supremacist terrorism in this
country he's not some weird analog to
al-qaeda or Isis it's not some foreign
thing that looks like something that
we've been fighting in the war on terror
it's actually fundamentally as American
as anything and it is an existential
threat to the multiracial and
pluralistic equal and open democracy
that we've been fighting for in this
country since people died on the
battlefield
in a civil war everybody Steve Kornacki
back here at the big board it's more
than numbers these are the states that
are gonna win oh the field they're
probably gonna create a front-runner
it's what those numbers mean
ideologically you're seeing in this
first weight a very similar electorate
to what you saw in 2016 but age-wise
this is the big variable this is why we
don't allow Steve Kornacki to leave the
building this time of year nobody breaks
it down like Carnegie need your true
crime fix on the go
Dateline episodes are available as
podcasts mysteries with a twist from the
true crime original Wow listen to
Dateline wherever you get your podcasts
[Music]
you're watching NBC News now we've got
some breaking news this is the Lions got
laughing brought more to the caucuses
news meet for your streaming world live
weekdays 3:00 to 11:00 p.m. Eastern
something new from Meet the Press the
Chuck podcast and insiders take on
politics and more for some of my
favorite reporters get it for free
wherever you get your podcast we've got
this fundamental thing about human
beings and we've got the way that we
constitute our politics and the danger
is that if our politics grow to tribal
they grow excessively tribal and we'll
lose this for the way of talking why is
this happening with chris hayes
subscribe now
[Music]
I'm gonna get some Las Vegas enchants
from Washington why should your judgment
be valued let's take my judgment against
anyone out there it's party unity your
concern right now or is simply winning
as many states as well it's both NBC
Nightly News with Lester Holt today
family gets so exciting to be here we
are serving up a de gay cafe
we have just loved seeing your beautiful
shining faces how sweet is that a week
after Joe Biden's Super Tuesday surge
voters in six states are at the polls
the Biden camp has its eyes set on
Mississippi where more than 70 percent
of primary voters in the state are
African American a voting bloc that
Biden has had great success with
especially in the south NBC News
correspondent Blaine Alexander is on the
ground in Jackson Mississippi hey Blaine
so what are Mississippi voters telling
you about who they're choosing and how
they're coming to that decision yeah so
we're actually at one of the more a busy
polling places here in Jackson women
standing here talking to voters as
they've been coming out for the better
part of the day and overwhelmingly
they're telling me that they're going
for Joe Biden now I can talk with some
Bernie Sanders supporters but yes the
vast majority of said that they're going
for fight and now so this really is not
much of a surprise when I tell you why
you look at one factor here in
Mississippi and of course that's the
African American vote in fact 71% of
voters here in Mississippi are African
American and I don't have to remind you
how well Joe Biden has done with black
voters especially black voters in the
South in fact the demographic here is
higher even than we saw in South
Carolina when it comes to black voters
so that's something that we expected to
see we expected to see him doing well
here in Mississippi and it certainly
seems that that's carrying over now
as for reasoning it's interesting
because we've heard a lot about
electability who is going to be the
candidate that will go forward win the
nomination and for Democrats ultimately
defeat Donald Trump in November
well yeah people here have told me that
that's important to them but they've
also said that it goes beyond that they
want somebody who has a plan and not
just a plan for in general but a plan
specifically geared toward African
Americans just a little bit about in
Mississippi this is one of the states
here in the country the state was one of
the highest poverty levels the highest
levels of inequality when it comes to
access to health care to education so
people here are looking for certainly a
bit more depth within just somebody who
can win in November as the people that
I've talked to Savannah absolutely
earlier I was talking to our colleague
Rehema Ellis who's also in Mississippi
who kind of said that it almost feels
like as if senator Sanders has said sort
of conceded to Biden and
senator Sanders did cancel events that
he had in Mississippi instead to go be
campaigning in Michigan how our voters
are reacting to that decision so here's
what's interesting about that you know
Bernie Sanders does not historically the
numbers have not been kind to him in
Mississippi if we go mark four years and
look at 2016
when he was up against Hillary Clinton
here in Mississippi he only won about 16
percent of the vote versus the former
Secretary of State he did not win a
single County here in Mississippi so
even just coming into this he was
already certainly not looking at like he
was going to be favored but after Super
Tuesday after we saw those numbers after
we saw how african-american voters
across the south really across Super
Tuesday states turned out for Joe Biden
it looked like he essentially decided
where or his resource is going to be
best used and as you saw he canceled
that rally here moved up to Michigan so
what is interesting about this however
is despite his bat showing back in 2016
the mayor of Jackson actually had
endorsed Bernie Sanders so there was a
town hall that was held here kind of a
forum he listened to some of the younger
voters and decided to endorse Bernie
Sanders and at least one person that
I've talked to said that it does matter
a lot to know how her mayor is planning
to vote so the question is would that
have made a difference might that have
made a difference
well even given that it appears that
canceling the rally moved his resources
to Michigan and people here took notice
thank you so much for reporting all that
out for a spine we're learning a little
more about what voters are saying
matters to them to break down today's
exit polls we're bringing an NBC News
national political reporter Steve
Kornacki voting is still going on in
these states but we're getting our first
look here and what the electorate looks
like today in some of these big
primaries so take you through some of
the things we're finding first of all
here take a look this is Mississippi one
of the states up tonight you see here in
the exit poll just of what the
electorate looks like in Mississippi
almost two-thirds black according this
exit poll that is the biggest number we
have seen yet in any state that's voted
in South Carolina the previous high the
number was 57 it's 64% here in
Mississippi of course we've seen the
struggles that Bernie Sanders's
in building support with black voters we
saw earlier this week he had that event
in Mississippi that he canceled to go up
and campaign in Michigan so you see the
number here in Mississippi
this has we've seen another places spell
trouble for Sanders we will see what
that means as the results come in
tonight two other big states voting
tonight in Missouri here at 17% black as
the electorate here again this was
actually the closest state in the 2016
primary Sanders versus Clinton he lost
to Clinton by about 1,500 votes here
17% black and if you take a look in
Michigan here the electorate 18 percent
black notably Michigan in 2016 it had
the highest share of black voters of any
state that Sanders won this number was
actually 21 percent in 2016 remember
Sanders won Michigan narrowly there is
no state in 2016 that had a higher
concentration of black voters but Bernie
Sanders was able to win in so we'll keep
an eye on that tonight and the other
divide we're gonna keep an eye on here
demographically this is among the white
voters in these states Missouri Michigan
in particular that college not that non
college College divided one of the key
ingredients for Sanders and being able
to win states and be competitive with
Hillary Clinton through the primary
season in 2016 it was strong support boy
Green was not a good choice here with
strong support from non college white
voters see a big chunk of the electric
this is Missouri you're looking at here
also you look in Michigan 37% of the
electorate they're non college white
Staters was winning this group by double
digits against Hillary Clinton last time
around we're gonna be keeping a close
eye re as these numbers come in is he
able to do that again or has there been
some slippage Kent County Michigan home
of Grand Rapids is a swing district and
it's moderate voters could be a major
factor in who wins the state MSNBC
correspondent Garrett Haake is with me
from Grand Rapids hi Garrett so of
course lots of eyes are on Michigan and
its many delegates what are you hearing
on the ground there right now well
Savannah as you said this is a county
that has become more of a swing county
over time it's typically a Republican
stronghold it's the home of President
Gerald Ford
but it's moved a while voted for Barack
Obama in 2008 it swung hard towards Mitt
Romney in 2012 and started to move back
towards Democrats
last cycle so you do see a mix of more
moderate voters here a lot of white
working-class voters here in terms of
the primary this is a place that went
heavily for Bernie Sanders in 2016 he
doubled up Hillary Clinton in this
district and just anecdotally from my
conversation conversations with voters
all day long today it does seem like
Sanders has retained a lot of his
support here as is often the case in
polling places and when I talked to
voters I don't meet a ton of new Bernie
Sanders supporters but a lot of folks
who are committed to him in 2016 remain
committed to him here again he's gonna
need big turnout from places like this
tonight if he's going to hold off Joe
Biden who's expected to have big numbers
in cities like Detroit potentially in
Flint could be a battleground so you can
think of this in the in the in the
western part of the mitten here as a
pretty heavy Bernie Sanders country
potentially tonight Garrett I was
talking to our colleague Dasha Byrnes
earlier who's also in Michigan and she
also pointed out how many of the voters
point to the fact that it was the state
of Gerald Ford I love how proud people
in Michigan are of that back so now
Bernie Sanders won Michigan narrowly in
the 2016 primary even though he went
into it with Hillary actually hurtin
above in those polls then he beats
Hillary Clinton in the general do voters
have the enthusiasm about learning now
that they did in 2016 he's going in with
Biden having this lead in polls but
maybe that doesn't matter it's really
hard to tell I was at a Bernie Sanders
rally on Sunday here in Grand Rapids
with something like 8,000 people at an
outdoor event those folks certainly
seemed enthused for Bernie Sanders but
just like in 2016
the polls are showing a different
candidate with a significant lead here
it's Joe Biden who's leading in the
polls here by double digits sometimes as
much as 20 points you know expectations
can be so finicky in politics because he
won last time because he came back from
the political dead last time it's a lot
of folks at Bernie Sanders supporters in
particular who think he can do so again
but it also raises the stakes if he
doesn't right I mean this is a state
that he won in 2016 if he performs
weaker here as we head into these other
Midwestern battlegrounds that will vote
in the coming weeks that could be really
damaging for him so we are seeing
enthusiasm at least in terms of the
rallies whether we can have enough
voters who continue to come out and pump
up those numbers again as I said
particularly in the western part of the
state to balance out how well Joe
Biden's expected
you in Detroit you know that'll be the
story throughout the course of this
night certainly will be we'll have to
wait and see now let's talk about where
you are Kent County Grand Rapids
specifically why is this district so
important to the Democratic primary
tonight what's unique about voters there
the voters here are emblematic of the
types of voters that Democrats are
trying to win back particularly across
the rest of the Upper Midwest these are
union voters their blue-collar folks
these are the kind of people whose union
boss might have endorsed Hillary Clinton
in 2016 but who instead chose to vote
for Donald Trump remember Michigan was a
state that the president won by only
about 11,000 votes the closest state in
the country there are a lot of folks who
were willing to give Donald Trump a test
drive maybe they didn't like Hillary
Clinton as the nominee well those are
the folks who are very much the target
of the Democratic Party this time around
and both Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden
make a claim to those kinds of voters
Bernie Sanders you know as his organum
workers revolution concept that appeals
to a lot of these workers
medicare-for-all appeals to a lot of
these workers but Joe Biden somebody
who's had connections with union workers
for a very long time going back to you
know the firefighters unions that
endorsed him when he was running for
Senate in Delaware so that's a that's
gonna be a major fight in this primary
and the winner hopes to take those
voters with them into November all right
Garrett thanks so much for joining us on
what is sure to be a busy night
[Music]
good evening from Washington I'm Casey
hunt as our good friend Chuck Todd likes
to say cue the election music we are
five minutes away from polls closing I'm
what could be a pivotal Tuesday night
we're watching Michigan Mississippi and
Missouri very carefully also on the map
tonight North Dakota Idaho and
Washington State believe it or not it
was just one week ago we saw the
momentum in this race swing wildly with
Joe Biden streaking ahead in total
delegates after Pete booted rich and Amy
Klobuchar assess the reality in front of
them and got behind the former vice
president and this week Cory Booker and
Camilla Harris joining them in backing
Biden over Sanders the other plot twist
tonight the intersection of our election
season with the sudden spread of
coronavirus tonight Bernie Sanders and
Joe Biden both cancelling rallies in
Cleveland Ohio out of an abundance of
caution the former vice president set to
speak at 9:00 p.m. from Philadelphia
also tonight the DNC announcing the live
audience there will be no live audience
for the upcoming debate in Arizona we
have reporters fanned out across the
states that are voting today here with
me to discuss all of this NBC News
senior political editor Mark Murray NBC
News political editor carried an MSNBC
contributor Shana Thomas and joining
from New York senior politics editor for
NBC News Beth Bui and moveon.org chief
public affairs officer and MSNBC
contributor Kareem jean-pierre it is
great to have all of you tonight on this
what could be a pivotal night for
especially Bernie Sanders because
everything is on the line for him here
in Michigan mark this was a huge huge
upset for him in 2016 with Hillary
Clinton and they have really put
everything on the line there but it it's
not it at least in the the days running
up to this it is not felt like this is
necessarily going to break his way best
news for Bernie Sanders is this could be
deja vu for him all over again at the
polls the momentum seems against him
he's able to shock the political world
once again and maybe end up getting that
lifeline to next week's contests in
Florida and Arizona and then the
following week in Georgia all really
tough political terrain for Bernie
Sanders but Casey on the other hand if
somehow Joe Biden is able to win
Michigan do better than
expected in places like Washington State
this could be very tough and really
almost cement the narrative that Bernie
Sanders is right now is running a weaker
campaign in 2020 than he was in 2016 so
Kerry what are you seeing in some of our
early early exit polling data that we've
been that has been coming in here that
you think is worth watching at this hour
tonight one thing I think is worth
watching in both Missouri and Michigan
is how Bernie Sanders does with white
voters particularly white voters who do
not have a college degree that was his
big strength in Michigan in 2016 union
voters were were some of his big
strengths I want to see if he's doing as
well with those constituencies versus
Joe Biden as he did versus Bernie say
versus Hillary Clinton you remember
Hillary Clinton's pitch compared to Jill
Biden yeah Joe Biden now has throughout
his career has talked about people who
need a hand up people who view their job
as a source of great pride he has tried
to be average Joe I understand union
workers I want to see if Joe Biden's
appeal to those voters is making a
difference or whether they're sticking
with Bernie Sanders like they did four
years ago well and Shana I mean all of
that sort of raises the question with me
you know especially in in places like
Michigan you know if if Bernie Sanders
does in fact lose to Joe Biden we're
that were those results in 2016 really
just about people who didn't like
Hillary Clinton I mean I think that is
one of the biggest questions of 2016 is
did she did she also lose the entire
election because people just had all
this baggage about the Clintons and a
thousand books have been written about
it and and it'll be interesting to see
how he does but I also think the
narrative that'll come out of this if
Joe Biden runs away as we expect him to
with Mississippi mostly because of black
voters depending on how many black
voters vote in Michigan
then the narrative will still be even if
Bernie Sanders performs well in Michigan
even if he takes the what the North
Dakota caucus and he win with black
voters which is what you need to win the
Democratic primary and in it's hard to
see how any of these narratives cancel
that out right well I mean and we've
gotten enough information I think
already to realize that Bernie Sanders
who has really struggled with black
voters all the way
has not made the inroads necessary to
actually make a big difference here but
we are ready it is now 8 o'clock in the
east
so polls have closed in some of these
critical states we are covering tonight
and right now at 8 p.m. NBC News can
project that Joe Biden is going to win
in Mississippi that is the state we were
just talking about these are those
critical african-american voters they
make up an enormous share of the
electorate in Mississippi and they are
on track to Han Joe Biden a win in that
southern state also closing now at 8:00
p.m. the polls in Missouri and at this
hour
that race according to NBC News is too
early to call we are not ready to call
the Missouri primary quite yet we are
watching up for the vote to start coming
in there but that of course a critical
piece of the map tonight a place where
as Carrie Dan was just kind of walking
us through you know you had some areas
where Sanders perform relatively well
we're looking to see if he does as well
or if he felt a falters a little bit
with some of those critical demographics
I think we have Ali Vitali one of our
NBC News road warriors out on the trail
for us ready to talk to us Ali you are I
believe in Cleveland Ohio which is where
both of these candidates were supposed
to be campaigning and speaking looking
ahead to next Tuesday's contests of
course both of them have decided because
of state health recommendations they
will not hold their rallies there
tonight but walk us through what you
know what you've seen as you've been
talking to voters and and what this call
in Mississippi means for this race yeah
Casey tonight was supposed to be one of
those rare nights where you had multiple
road warriors in the same place because
both Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders were
supposed to be here in Cleveland both of
them canceling their rallies and I think
today sort of presents a two-fold piece
of what this 2020 election is going into
on the politics friend calling
Mississippi early for the Biden campaign
that sort of tracks with the level of
confidence that they had as they looked
at the southern states who were voting
today at the same time they are managing
expectations as far as Michigan goes
they
know that this is one of those states
that was critical for Bernie Sanders in
2016 and could also prove critical for
the Biden campaign if they're able to
sort of continue this self-fulfilling
prophecy this narrative that they've
been able to build around themselves
since South Carolina that the party is
falling in line behind Joe Biden even
just think of the way that he ended his
campaign in Michigan just yesterday when
he was out on the road with Kamala
Harris and Cory Booker a show of force
shock and awe for not just Michigan
voters but at the same time voters
across the country and then of course
the coronavirus piece of this canceled
rallies here Joe Biden also now
announcing that he's cancelling a Tampa
event that he was supposed to do on
Thursday and instead giving an address
from Willington Delaware on the
coronavirus this is just one of those
moments where you start to realize that
another unforeseen force first it was
impeachment forcing them to contend with
how they could campaign when senators
were supposed to be in Washington now
it's a question of how do you campaign
at all face to face when this public
health crisis is looming over this
entire race tonight was the first time
that we saw campaigns have to contend
with that and actually cancel rallies
but this could very much be the new
reality going forward as we go into this
campaign 2020 season into this next
phase Super Tuesday 2.0 and Beyond ya
know it's a it's a very good point it'd
be a pretty stunning turn of events and
something that certainly we've never
seen in modern in modern times ala
Vitali
thank you very much my friend always
great to see you we're gonna go now to
our Rehema Ellis who is on the ground in
Mississippi african-american voters just
really running up the score there for
Joe Biden and this electorate it looks
like a little bit less heavily
african-american this time around 64
percent in 2020 versus 71 percent in
2016 Rehema what what have you learned
on the ground there today what we heard
is what you've just been talking about
that African Americans it seems helped
bring Joe Biden over the top if what
you're projecting holds true and that if
you're saying that Biden looks like he's
going to win the primary here in
Mississippi if it again holds true that
projection it means that Biden would
have done a sweep of the south it seems
like a lot of people figure that
Bernie Sanders was thinking that and
they didn't see him down here in
Mississippi they thought that he had
essentially conceded this state to Joe
Biden you know in 2016 what happened
down here in terms of the primary was
that as 2016 results were that Hillary
Clinton got over 80 percent of the vote
down here and Bernie Sanders got only in
the teens something like 16 percent and
black women essentially in this state
make up almost half of the state's
electorate a powerful voting bloc when
we talk to people down here black women
they said things like yes we are
nurturers yes we come out to vote yes we
are thinking about the future and so
it's critical for us to do that and the
other thing that I asked them is about
whether or not they were enthusiastic
about their candidate or was this just
the last of the less people said no they
are enthusiastic and what were they
thinking they're thinking that there's a
need for change from what's happening in
the White House now they hope that Joe
Biden will be the person who brings
people together versus what they say is
that doing as being done by the man in
the White House now they say he is
dividing the nation and they want
someone who can bring everyone together
via the next election so that's what
they were that's what they were voting
for it this time I've got to show you
one thing however in this ballot Casey
there are 10 names on the ballot one
woman said to me she was a little upset
about that she said what if people think
that their candidate is still on the
ballot when it still is just a
three-person race because Gabbard is in
here but it's between Biden and Sanders
so there's a little commercial up in New
York that used to talk about an educated
consumer was the best customer well an
educated consumer is also the best
electorate in this particular instance
they didn't have time to rewrite the
ballots for the election but based on
what you're telling me it may not have
made a difference Rehema Ellis thank you
so much for your reporting from
Mississippi which of course NBC has now
projected will go for Joe Biden in this
primary we're gonna go now though to
another state we are watching NBC News
now projecting that both Bernie Sanders
and Joe Biden will
threshold in Missouri not a surprise
because obviously they are it is a
essentially a head-to-head contest tulsi
gabbard of course still running but we
are still counting those votes looking
at our results too early to call in
Missouri but we do find our von Hilliard
on the ground there in Florissant
Missouri one out what has been you know
this is has been a contest Bernie
Sanders was campaigning in st. Louis
earlier this week what's your sense of
how things are potentially going to
shake out based on what you've heard on
the ground
exactly casey joe biden was here on
saturday then you're right bernie
sanders was just here about 30 hours ago
in downtown st. Louis and when you're
looking at this race for as much
attention as Michigan and Mississippi
are getting when you're looking at
Missouri go back four years ago Hillary
Clinton beat Bernie Sanders here by just
about 1,600 votes and of course Bernie
Sanders is in this race again and so
when you're looking at these numbers
four years ago to today I think that's
where these numbers are gonna be able to
tell us a lot you know Donald Trump beat
Hillary Clinton by 19 percentage points
in the general election here and you
don't hear many folks suggesting that a
Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders could
potentially win against Donald Trump
this November but when you're looking at
what type of candidate is able to draw
these various demographics to best build
this idea of the Obama coalition and I
think that's where these numbers that
are just starting to come in will tell
us we are in st. Louis County which is
about 50/50 percent African American and
so what you have seen as evidence is
that Joe Biden so based off of some of
these early entrance polling numbers
performs I got about 69 percent at least
according to our entrance polling among
African American voters but also we're
again we're getting these numbers in and
again these are just exit polling
figures not the actual results but exit
polling from NBC News is suggesting that
here in Missouri about 54% of white
voters went for Joe Biden compared to
38% for Bernie Sanders of course that
would suggest that Joe Biden has grown
his support over what Hillary Clinton
was able to do here from four years
ago in large part these these primaries
that have taken place to date KC have
shown that Joe Biden has been able to
gain support among more of the non
highly educated white voters those
working-class voters that were more
deferential to Bernie Sanders four years
ago these early numbers at least suggest
that that could be the case again here
in Missouri the other issue is looking
even beyond here in urban st. Louis but
looking more towards places like
Jefferson County this is more of those
st. Louis suburbs there where its
independence and Republicans who didn't
have a primary to take part in this time
around but how many of those folks more
moderate and individuals that perhaps
even voted for the likes of Claire
McCaskill in the past or adjacent Cantor
back in 2016 we're willing to support a
Joe Biden candidacy I think that's why
we'll go back to that number from four
years ago Hillary Clinton with just a
1600 vote victory over Bernie Sanders
and while they both meet threshold
apparently statewide to what extent
would Joe Biden be able to expand that
support and really make the case that he
is the candidate that could roll into a
place like Missouri and pick off some of
these more working-class white voters
and be able to carry that message at the
very same time he's able to say I also
have only grown my support among
african-american voters Casey that
question of african-american turnout is
one I'm really interested in whether you
know depressed turnout among among black
voters back in 2016
obviously seem to have hurt Hillary
Clinton whether it would make a
difference for Joe Biden if he were in
fact to win this primary and face Trump
in the general election Vaughn Hilliard
thank you very much let's go now to a
Korean jump here in New York Kareem I
should pick up on some of these threads
that we've been we've been talking about
here we've got some of these numbers out
of Mississippi now black voters 84
percent for Joe Biden in the state of
Mississippi it's very close to the
number of people of voters who also
attend religious services weekly who
went 83% for Joe Biden same moderates
and conservative Democrat
84% older people aged over 45 86 % just
absolutely cleaning up with those voters
and you know I feel like you and I
probably had this conversation on TV
before these voters started voting but
African American women the core
constituency of this Democratic Party
and if you can't win them it's really
tough to win the nomination which Bernie
Sanders is learning the hard way yeah I
will say this over and over again on on
TV which is if you if you are a
Democratic candidate and you want to get
the nomination if you have to get
overwhelming support from
african-american voters in particular
black women and if you want to win in
the general election the same thing you
have to have that key demographic to
help you get over to today to that line
there so here's the thing you guys
earlier were talking about what 2016 was
about I can tell you what 2020 is about
2020 is about Donald Trump this is what
we're seeing
it's about Donald Trump getting him out
of office and we see this over and over
when it comes to Joe Joe Biden's
momentum right the Joe mentum as they're
talking about it that's what's taking
him over the line that's what is helping
him get these big huge numbers with with
black voters especially in the south so
we expected this we expected him to do
well in Mississippi especially after how
well he did in South Carolina and a week
ago in southern states so this is not
that surprising but it is now his
coalition this is it black voters we
also saw some some interesting numbers
for him in in the suburban areas older
voters like this is kind of becoming
Biden's coalition so now Bernie Bernie
needed to do well with black odors with
older voters in order to just compete in
particular in Michigan because we knew
we knew Mississippi and Missouri was
gonna probably go Biden's away but
Michigan is the shirt is the game right
now and we have we're gonna I guess get
to see how Bernie does in that state
pretty soon we are we are of course
waiting on the polls to close in
Michigan it's a it's a split poll closed
state so we'll see if we get some more
information coming up at at 9 o'clock we
had been hearing that there were put
some potential problems counting the
ballots in Michigan so that's a big a
big
she marked for us tonight is that
absolutely critical state and Beth
phooey let's let's stick with that that
question of how we may see things at
shake Adam and we've used Macomb County
for example as essentially a litmus test
for every election going back what to
Reagan at the very least those voters
that have been you know white
working-class a lot of them members of
auto unions they've swung back and forth
many of them voted for Obama but then
they swung over to trump what have you
seen so far tonight as we've been
talking through this about what what
that what what would we potentially
learn about Joe Biden's strengths or
weaknesses from what comes out of
Michigan tonight well yeah as you recall
Casey Bernie Sanders actually beat
Hillary Clinton by a very surprising
sort of very narrow margin but a big of
a very big surprise in 2016 because he
was pulling way behind her right up to
the vote and that's why the Bernie
Sanders campaign feels optimistic today
because even though many of the polls
have shown him trailing Joe Biden they
they are hoping that because of what
happened in 2016 that history can
perhaps repeat itself this year but you
know it's different Casey you're talking
about Macomb County you're talking about
those sort of white working-class voters
many of whom voted for Obama and then
voted for President Trump they're not
really the story this year that's the
story from 2018 and the story that we've
seen so far in 2020 is not necessarily
that group of voters as sort of this big
swing voters but rather suburban voters
suburban women people who might have sat
out 2016 or maybe even voted in the past
for Republicans but now are unhappy with
President Trump and want to see a change
they led that change in 2018 they
brought forth those 40 Democrats to his
flip red districts and that same
coalition as Kareem was describing seems
to be coming together around Joe Biden
helping him across the finish line with
Bernie Sanders and potentially in
November against President Trump you
just see so so much example of that
there that the turnout in most of these
states is going much higher than we saw
in primaries in 2016 there's a real
level of motivation we didn't see in
African American turnout which you
mentioned before was a little bit
diminished in 2016 appears not to be the
case at all this time so
right now that that coalition that sort
of moderate black and black coalition
that brought forth those 40 new
Democrats in 2018 seem to be what is
powering Joe Biden at this point
yeah no fair fair enough it's an
absolutely absolutely good point and I
you know I made I remember being at a
lot of these Bernie Sanders rallies in
in in Michigan and that's where you
really heard from the voters who were
saying well if it's not Bernie then I'm
gonna vote for Trump and so maybe we've
you know maybe those Macomb Macomb
County type voters have have been lost
the Democrats entirely or you know I'd
be interested to see if Joe Biden wins
the nomination if you can get some of
them back back Phooey
stick with us please I think we want to
go out now to Grand Rapids to continue
this conversation about what's happening
on the ground
dasha burns has been reporting for us
from Grand Rapids if you are learning
anything new there about where things
stand in terms of the count in terms of
what what we're gonna hear coming up
here as we head toward poll closed at
nine hey Casey yeah so we actually just
left our our polling site right after it
closed at 8 o'clock we were in Grand
Rapids Township precinct 6 and we've
made our way to the Grand Rapids
Township Clerk's office were actually
all the precincts in this area are gonna
be walking through these doors any
minute and delivering the physical
results the poll book though a big big
old bag of ballots to this office right
behind me where the receiving board will
be actually looking at all of that
making you know doing their their due
diligence with all of that all of those
materials but we just got the results
from precinct six and the split the
split poll results we have Joe Biden
leading in the the ballot count there
with 186 ballots for Joe Biden Donny's
new we have some breaking news we have
to bring to our viewers I do apologize
for interrupting you I don't want to
break in because now NBC News can
project that Joe Biden wins the state of
Missouri he is the projected winner
tonight that is a major prize on the map
68 delegates at stake in Missouri not of
course the biggest prize tonight that of
course is in Michigan where we were just
talking with
dasha burns but the projected winner in
Missouri Joe Biden not necessarily
unexpected but certainly something that
he it's one less thing to worry about
here Joe Biden let's just put it that
way
Josh Letterman I believe is with us
Josh Letterman is in Cleveland Ohio Josh
you of course we're supposed to be
covering the Bernie Sanders campaign
tonight he is not in Cleveland anymore
because of the corona virus but so far
the shaping up not to be necessarily a
great night for Bernie Sanders although
we're still waiting of course for those
critical votes out of Michigan and
there's some concerns based on the way
this corona virus is proceeding that if
Bernie Sanders is not able to hold these
massive rallies like the one that was
cancelled just behind me here in
Cleveland that's going to particularly
affect his brand and style of
campaigning differently than someone
like Joe Biden who never really was one
for massive rallies which much more
about retail politicking person to
person but for Bernie Sanders were
hearing from supporters of his they're
concerned what that's going to do to his
campaign as far as the results coming in
tonight the Sanders campaign knew that
some of these states were going to be
very difficult for him even in Michigan
where there was a lot of attention on
the fact that he paid pulled off this
upset victory against Hillary Clinton
four years ago in Michigan the Sanders
campaign has been hopeful optimistic
pointing out the hard work that he's
done in Michigan but realizing that
Hillary Clinton is not Joe Biden and
that the same weaknesses in Hillary
Clinton that gave someone like Bernie
Sanders an opening against her in
Michigan and frankly that gave Donald
Trump an opening against her in Michigan
are not the same with someone like Joe
Biden who does have a much more proven
appeal to a lot of these voter groups
that we've been talking about tonight so
we're gonna have to see as this moves
forward as we get more and more
information tonight the key thing that
the Sanders campaign will be looking at
the delegate count and whether Joe Biden
emerges from this with such a lead
in the delegate count that it looks
somewhat insurmountable or whether
Sanders is able to keep that to a
minimum so that he looks at least he
looks like he still has a viable pathway
toward the nomination coming out of the
six states that are voting today Casey
all right Josh Letterman I thank you
very much for that let's bring it back
here to our panel guys I want to we got
a lot to chew over really quick
Missouri Biden's key groups here people
who believe that he can unite the
country or believe that the most
important thing is somebody who can
unite the country 83% of those people
voted for Joe Biden 69 percent of black
voters voted for Joe Biden 68 percent of
older voters and 67 percent of those who
wanted somebody who can beat Donald
Trump went for Joe Biden Kerry Dan put
Missouri in context for us and on the
broader map what does this win mean for
fun I mean I think this is gonna show
that he may have strengths elsewhere in
the country with those groups that we
were talking about earlier those union
workers those whites white voters
without a college degree this is a group
that Sanders won by I think nine points
four years ago Union voters Joe Biden is
leading with them by over 20 points in
these exit polls that were looking at
that bodes very well for him and I do
just want to point out the the context
here Missouri was extremely hard-fought
last time the Hillary Clinton barely won
it by less than a percentage point and
back in 2008 it was extremely close with
Barack Obama just barely barely winning
the state so yes I mean Biden was
assumed to be a front-runner in the
state going into tonight but the fact
that we're calling this at you know 8 17
is a pretty good night for Joe Biden
yeah I mean it was a it's it's it's so
difficult on primary night cuz you can't
call it a pure a swing state but from
the in the context of a split Democratic
Party it was it was a swing state of
Missouri mark what are you seeing in
some of these numbers that you think's
worth underscoring - so we talked about
Joe Biden's over performance let's talk
about Bernie Sanders under performance
and you know this talk about I'm gonna
bring this new electorate out it really
strikes me from the exit polls in
Missouri is it 12% ended up saying that
there are 18 to 29 years old that is
actually down from 2016 is yet another
state in which the electorate is
actually older and of course you know
Bern
sander says I'm gonna bring out you know
my kind of voters but we ended up seeing
from state to state to state and Bernie
Sanders is underperforming and not
really bringing people out and in fact
when you kind of look through the exit
polls it really is the very Liberals the
younger voters and not a whole lot else
and that is problematic when you get to
states that aren't in Vermont and get
outside of contests that aren't caucuses
well in Shona I mean we've seen on the
trail the last couple of days Bernie
Sanders has in some ways blamed young
voters for not showing up as part of the
reason why he hasn't been doing better
and of course the media along with it
yeah well I mean we're weird to blame
for everything if you ask me but the
thing is Joe Biden is running a campaign
and you can say what you want about his
campaign and how it was run between Iowa
New Hampshire Nevada and South Carolina
that is sort of an older old-school
campaign which is older people go and
vote especially in primaries and sort of
depending your campaign on getting a
whole new electorate to come maybe vote
for the first time or maybe it would or
maybe the second time even though we had
a lot of young voters not show up in
2016 there is is a really hard way to
win I also think one of the numbers you
pulled out that that it was 67% of
people who wanted to beat Trump that's
the majority numbers right that says
that there's something about Bernie
Sanders message that isn't totally
resonating with people who that is their
key thing and we've been talking all
throughout this primary the beating
Trump whatever electability is that
crazy word electability that that is the
key thing everyone is focusing on
there's something that has gotten
through that has made people convinced
that Bernie Sanders at least in the case
of these particular numbers is not the
one to beat Trump and I am curious if it
is the if it's the down ballot message
if it is just the democratic socialist
message which he is I'm not trying to
bag on Bernie or anything like that well
but I mean it's a real those older
voters that you're talking about that
are so important I mean they have a much
different perception of democratic
socialism that won't socialism socialism
in general you know I mean and you know
you can even set Florida aside just in
terms of age I mean younger voters a lot
of them more the
just voters that are showing up these
college towns we're not even alive when
the Berlin Wall fell down yeah right so
it's old wars only it's a completely
different set of associations but I mean
I feel like a lot of these older voters
this is somebody that they feel like
they've seen for a long time the old
hippie even and they don't think that
they can win elections yeah and again
you know when you end up looking at that
Bernie Sanders coalition you know to me
Casey what you kind of end up getting at
is this kind of revolution versus
restoration and Shawn I was like talking
about the electability and you know - in
fairness to Bernie Sanders we've all
heard his rallies time he says we have
to beat Trump Trump is a racist he goes
in all of that consistent yeah
but the fundamental part of his entire
message is we can't just get rid of
Trump we actually have to have a
revolution in our American politics like
replacing Trump is enough and honestly
Joe Biden's message is much different
he's like no no just replace Trump and
we go back to 2016 and isn't that a
nicer friendlier place and that those
are the two messages it seems like
normalcy is selling at this hour of the
night all right we have so much coming
up we're gonna talk more about how the
corona virus is affecting the election
we are also of course watching Michigan
those polls close across the state by
9:00 p.m. we're carefully checking in to
see what our exit data is showing the
latest there we're gonna break it all
down for you as the night unfolds stick
with us
[Music]
very own today family getaway is so
exciting to be here we are serving up a
two gay cafe special
we have just loved seeing your beautiful
shining faces how sweet is that
I need your true crime fix on the go
Dateline episodes are available as
podcasts mysteries with a twist from the
true crime original Wow listen to
Dateline wherever you get your podcasts
[Music]
you're watching NBC News now we've got
some breaking news this is the Lions got
laughing brought more to the caucuses
news meet for your streaming world live
weekdays 3:00 to 11:00 p.m. Eastern
[Music]
we've got this fundamental thing about
human beings and then we've got the way
that we constitute our politics and the
danger is that if our politics grow to
tribal then we'll lose this sort of way
of talking why is this happening with
chris hayes subscribe now
[Music]
welcome back to live coverage on NBC
News now polls in Mississippi and
Missouri are closed and NBC has
projected that Joe Biden will win in
Missouri and in Mississippi that's 36
delegates there in Mississippi more in
Missouri sixty eight delegates we're of
course counting carefully and awarding
those as the night goes on but the state
of course that we are watching most
closely tonight is Michigan polls close
they're they it's a split what we call a
split poll close so some polls have
already closed in Michigan but we're
still waiting on others and we can't of
course walk through all of that data for
you until we have all of the information
at our fingertips and we're also
watching for the Secretary of State
there are some questions about how
quickly they're gonna count the votes in
Michigan tonight so we're keeping an eye
on that to see we've of course already
had one giant counting debacle in this
primary season so far so we have all of
our fingers crossed we are not running
into something like that tonight in
Michigan the other dynamic can play of
course Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden both
cancelling their rallies tonight they
were supposed to be in Cleveland but
that is of course because of fears
around the coronavirus and that context
could reshape this entire campaign both
this primary campaign but also
potentially the general election the
vice president set to speak that's Joe
Biden not Mike Pence former vice
president at 9:00 p.m. from Philadelphia
right as the polls close in Michigan we
do have some early insights from our
exit polling and one of them is a split
in priorities between Sanders and Biden
voters among Biden supporters who voted
tonight 71 percent prioritized beating
Trump and that's identical to the views
that supporters in earlier contests who
voted for him had among Sanders voters
only 46 percent prioritized beating
Trump we of course are also counting
carefully in Missouri tonight we've of
course called that race already for Joe
Biden but we do find NBC's Vaughn
Hilliard there he is still
a now closed polling location in
Florissant Missouri Vaughn we were
talking a little bit at the table about
this Missouri was a nail-biter in 2016
between Bernie Sanders and Hillary
Clinton it was close between Obama and
Clinton back in 2008 this is a pretty
early poll close and a pretty good sign
for Biden's campaign going forward there
tonight why you're right before the
break there you guys were breaking down
the exit polling there which shows Joe
Biden not only with support among
african-american voters 69% of black
voters supporting Joe Biden / NBC exit
polling but also when you look at white
voters overwhelming supported by about
20 percentage points over Bernie Sanders
you know it was four years ago that
Hillary Clinton beat Bernie Sanders here
in Missouri by just 1,600 votes so you
know I was talking with Ava and James
Victorian earlier they voted here at the
st. Louis location and they said that
they came and voted for Joe Biden today
and they said that they were frustrated
because they remember at a time in which
Missouri was not forgotten or ignored
during the general election you know
four years ago Donald Trump beat Hillary
Clinton here by 19 percentage points but
just four years before that Barack Obama
only lost by 9 percentage points and of
course Claire McCaskill used to be the
sitting u.s. senator a Democrat here
four years ago in the in the US Senate
race Jason Kander a Democrat lost by
just two percentage points against
Republican Roy Blunt in those two voters
I talked to said that they want Missouri
to be in play again and they believe
that Joe Biden is that path forth
questioning how Bernie Sanders that
would ever actually pass what it took to
pass his the legislation the defense
might think some of that exit polling
broke that down there was the question
an NBC exit polling on who would be best
in order to beat Donald Trump 67 percent
saying Joe Biden who is best to unify
the country 83% of voters saying Joe
Biden you know when you're looking at
these numbers 1600 votes separated
Bernie Sanders from Hillary Clinton four
years ago but early evidence of these
from exit polling would suggest that
this is big for Joe Biden and well
he may not if he were to become the
nominee Casey be able to beat Donald
Trump here in the state next November at
the same time what this polling evidence
shows there what the exit polls show us
is not only support greater support
among working-class white voters those
voters white voters without college
degrees which he'll Hillary Clinton
struggled to garner the same traction
among but also there's that question
about what are the about those moderate
voters those independent voters here in
the state Republican voters that didn't
have a Republican primary to partake in
to what extent did those folks decide to
show up and partake on behalf of Joe
Biden I think that's as we watch these
Missouri results come in as much as we
maybe it's being attention to the
delegate count I think there's a lot
more that we can take away from the
demographic breakdown here out of
Missouri Casey for sure Vaughn Hilliard
thank you very much always great to see
you my friend I'm sure we'll be talking
to you again as this night wears on but
let's go back to Mississippi and our
colleague Rehema Ellis who has been on
the ground reporting there for us
Rehema one thing that stood out to me as
well and we were talking a little bit
here at the table about the reliable
frankly older voters who come out more
typically than the young voters Bernie
Sanders campaign is relying on and you
know our data coming out of Mississippi
shows the electorate there's actually
older this time than it was in 2016
seventy four percent of voters were over
the age of forty five twenty six percent
under forty five that's up fifteen
points only sixty percent were over
forty five back in 2016 that seems to
refute this argument that that Bernie
Sanders is able to to juice youth
turnout it really does and based on what
we saw here at this one particular
voting location there were a large
number of older women
maybe over certainly over there in the
30s and over 40 who were coming to this
particular place so that bears out what
you're saying about that traditional
reliable vote that black vote among
black that vote among black women black
women tenderly generally make up the
strongest
voting block here in Mississippi we talk
to some of these voters men and women
and take a listen to what they had to
say about the election today because if
we don't come together as a country as a
people how are we going to lead other
nations around us how are we gonna do
that
if we're dividing you see a lot of of
course I do because we're as black women
we are nurturers
we don't just plan for the day we plan
for tomorrow
and what we do is not only for our
children but our grandchildren so we're
looking for their future as well I am a
Democrat and I always been afraid and I
watched him his characters attitude and
I believe he's
and I believe he'll do what he's safe as
much as he can or be allowed to in his
ability I think the people who know
Biden have listened to the message from
God South Carolina and friend
congressman Clyburn was a great friend
of Senator of Representative been
adopted here and we've heard a message
about we know Joe Biden and Jill Biden
knows us one of the things Casey we were
hearing over and over again is people
want to bring back unity in this country
and they believe that Joe Biden is a
candidate who can do that people who
were saying that they're too tired of
the division they're tired of the kind
of comments that are sort of caustic
that they're hearing coming out of the
White House they don't want that anymore
they believe that Joe Biden is a
candidate who can take all of that
negativity out of the White House they
also think that Joe Biden is the one who
speaks to their issues and that's one of
the reasons why they said they came into
this place today and voted for him I
actually tell you one of the thing too
in terms of the consistency as we're
talking about earlier that it did seem
to be an older group of people voting
but a large number of the people that we
saw here were also black women Rehema
Ellis thank you very much for that
update from Mississippi which of course
we have now at this hour and we called
it at the poll close for Joe Biden my
panels back with me and we have maria
theresa kumar the CEO of voto Latino
also with us from New York and Maria
Theresa the we spent a lot of time
saying it and you know I realized we're
looking forward not back but I think
it's important to underscore that this
race has changed incredibly dramatically
when diverse voters got a chance to have
their voices heard absolutely and I
think that what you're seeing there's
become we Mayor voters there we go can
you hear me can you hear me yeah we got
you now I'm sorry wonderful huh you
missed my brilliance Casey
I'll try second times I always will get
bread dough
sherry was that we the Democratic Party
at this moment has an opportunity to
cement a new generation of voters you'll
have 12 million more young voters than
baby boomers this first time this
election for the very first time in
American history and what's interesting
is that they need to cement every new
voter as their voter as the progressive
base and that's what we're seeing we're
seeing enthusiasm even if you're looking
at some of the returns in Dearborn right
now their election results
they're basically flooding the gates
with new with new voters they didn't
expect it the Secretary of State there
been said basically said that 7,000
people registered on day of and that
talks about the importance of not only
having modernizing your election system
but making it more accessible for voters
to come in and participate Kerry Dan
let's pick up on on that on that very
point I mean it does seem I mean we're
still waiting on some of our numbers
here and I want to be cautious in terms
of what we can say and what we can't say
in terms of our exit our exit polling
but certainly I think it's more on safe
ground to say this is a good night for
Joe Biden if what we've seen out of
Missouri and Mississippi particularly
Missouri holds in terms of demographic
trends Michigan is looking relatively
good for Joe Biden I think that that's
that's totally fair to say you know
don't forget that Missouri also has a
significant chunk of black voters too we
talked a lot about that with Mississippi
so does the state of Michigan it's a you
know it's it's a black voters are
obviously not a monolith but there is a
significant part of the Michigan
electorate particularly around the
Detroit area if Joe Biden is pulling in
margins like he's pulling in in Missouri
and Mississippi with that electorate
that's obviously great news for him and
the fact that he's doing as well with
white voters as he is in Missouri is a
very good sign for him one thing I want
to talk about in comparison to 2016 we
keep on going back to 2016 and it's
always my benchmark for how Sanders has
to do in comparison to how he did four
years ago yeah but one thing that's
really important to remember is the fact
that four years ago Donald Trump was
considered unelectable in a general
election now he's a real reality so when
we talk about voters who make it their
top priority to beat Donald Trump that's
not beating a mythical vision of what
people think maybe Donald Trump would be
like as president right they've
experienced it for the last
two-and-a-half years and
I think that's why you're seeing so much
concrete decision-making on the part of
voters who say I've lived through this I
maybe made a decision four years ago
that I'm regretting but now I you know
I'm gonna show up I'm gonna turn it out
and I'm gonna vote for somebody who I
think can win well I want to talk for a
second to about something that you know
we've we've mentioned a couple times
tonight that coronavirus is kind of
shadowing all of this it's obviously the
big news story it's what everyone is
talking about at home with their
families with their friends with a lot
of us are talking about you know before
we came on the air it's affected
candidates decisions to cancellations
but Shawna the idea that were
potentially settling in for months weeks
if not months of changing lifestyle
fighting a crisis of unpredictable
situations where suddenly what the
federal government does is very
important to a lot of people's lives in
a way that that it isn't necessarily
when there isn't a crisis at hand how
does that shape up when you know it's
just struck me that for Donald Trump
this is perhaps the the the worst
problem he could face because everyone
is tuned in way past his own base of
supporters he's got to talk to literally
the entire country and he's developed a
reputation for not telling the truth so
at a time when he most needs Americans
to trust him they don't know if they can
and in in the context of trying to run
for re-election that is a tough hill to
climb as an incredibly hard hill to
climb I do think if you allow me to be
purely political and step away from the
fact that the corona virus is affecting
real people is like killing people that
kind of thing purely political Donald
Trump had an opportunity here actually
this is a really hard thing to do to try
to rally this country and figure out
what to do about a pandemic there you
know I mean there are organizations that
prepare for this but you can never
really actually prepare but if he had a
little bit more especially with a lot of
voters if people believed a little bit
more about what he said if he put the
scientists front and center and if he
didn't try to downplay this too much and
didn't contradict them there is a way to
look presidential and I know we are
really scared of using that term and
after like every State of the Union
night we're like Diddy Allah
presidential I don't know but there was
a way to look presidential and in
control of this country when and a lot
of people have said this on MSNBC when
everyone thinks that this is what the
federal government is supposed to do and
whether you are a conservative who
thinks we should have smaller government
or a Democrat like Bernie Sanders who
thinks the government should be in
control of all of your health care you
you have the ability here to step up to
the plate and be like hey guys I'm
president and kind of goes to what you
were saying that you know Donald Trump
was sort of a mythical idea of what
presidential might be in 2016 he is
actually the president now and in this
case he is creating a situation where he
is running against himself and there is
a way for Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden to
and this is gonna make me sound crass
and I get it capitalize upon that that
he is not necessarily the most stable
genius in the world to be running when
you are worried about your family and
your friends and your grandparents
possibly dying from something yeah we
have numbers I think on you know who
people would trust in a crisis and a lot
of voters are saying that you know Joe
Biden Joe Biden they're telling us that
Joe Biden is that person and Biden is
gonna deliver remarks tomorrow we've
learned in Wilmington Delaware about
coronavirus that is instead of a
previously scheduled campaign event that
he had in Tampa Florida a Korean job
here can you weigh in on this for us I
mean how how are you thinking about this
as an overarching problem I mean
underscoring
what you know Shawna's excellent that
point and caveat this is this is not a
strictly political conversation but it
is one where the stakes are very high
and people are going to be deciding who
to vote for based on actions and and
words yeah so I want to just state that
Donald Trump has had crisis before if
you think about the separation of
children from their families at the
border but it only affected people at
the border unfortunately now we are at a
moment at a point where this crisis is
you know something that was not part
policy or something that he created it's
something that's completely out of this
control and so now he does what he does
best which is he blames everyone else
and doesn't know how to to be a leader
and this is not all that surprising
we've seen Donald Trump do this over and
over again lie about things and blame it
on everyone else and it's almost as if
it's like he doesn't care about the
public the health the health of the
public he cares about the health of his
political game so he's thinking about
politics but he's just thinking about it
in a different way he's thinking about
the economy and making sure the economy
doesn't take and what he doesn't
understand is the public is looking to
him for this moment so when you look at
those numbers for Biden and how high
they are and how people trust him and
could lead a lot of that is because he
was vice president he was in the White
House he was in the Oval Office he dealt
with Ebola as being one of the point
people for for the part of the Obama
administration so people see him in that
role and so it actually helps Biden in
that way if you're thinking about the
politics of all of this and so and I
want to be clear it's not that people
don't like Bernie Sanders because if you
look at his favorability at all of the
polls he actually did better than all of
the other candidates people are just
making a choice they're making a choice
on who could beat Donald Trump on the
unifying the country on getting out of
this kind of hole that folks feel that
they're in getting us out of this and
into a forward moving motion
I know great points all Kareem thank you
let's press pause on this coronavirus
conversation for just a second because
it is 8:45 we're 15 minutes away from
the final poll close at 9 p.m. in
Michigan we are also expecting a news
conference from the Board of Elections
at that time so hopefully we'll learn a
little bit more about where things stand
as well as what our great decision desk
is doing behind the scenes and thinking
about how this race is going to shake
out and let's go to Burns who's in Grand
Rapids and I - I they interrupt you last
time we spoke because we were getting
those calls from Missouri but I think
you were running us through
I see people standing behind you now you
you were you were talking about ballots
coming in there what is the sense on the
ground as far as how things are going
both molec itself obviously but also in
terms of this counting that the kind of
issues and problems we've seen crop up
today whether they think that is going
to be a major problem through the night
yeah Casey so I've got a little line
forming behind me here where these
election workers are waiting to deliver
these big bags full of ballots and
they're pull books to the review board
back at the receiving board that's in
this room here
will actually be going through all of
those materials but Grand Rapids as part
of Kent County which is a really
fascinating place to watch both for the
primary and for the general Bernie
Sanders had a big upset here back in
2016 he won Kent County by a very wide
margin over Hillary Clinton but in 20
and the 2016 general election Donald
Trump carried this County and so the
voters I've been talking to here have
been weighing the push and pull of who
to choose who can win back the state of
Michigan and frankly what you've been
talking about all night electability the
majority of people have been thinking
about electability with the Bernie
Sanders voters have been thinking about
ideology and values and what lines up
with with what they actually want to see
in terms of policy in terms of big
change they want to see in this country
one thing that will be interesting to
watch though is it may be a little while
longer than than we'd like to wait
before we actually find out which of
these candidates swept this state
because there's been a rule change here
voters have a new option that they can
actually mail in their ballots which
means there are a lot of absentee
ballots to count here Casey and that may
slow down the process yeah and of course
one of the critical distinctions there
is that people can apparently tear up
and throw out there previously mailed in
ballots in Michigan if say for example
their chosen candidate
drops out of the race which of course
causes some
Changez and potential problems in terms
of actually counting those absentee
complicating balances for sure dr. burns
thank you so much let's go now out to
Washington State which has so far been
the epicenter of this coronavirus
outbreak also an interesting test case
tonight they vote entirely by mail Steve
Patterson I'm looking at a little bit of
our data about how how much the corona
virus was on the minds of voters out
where you are in Washington State the
vast majority say that they're either
very concerned or somewhat concerns just
less than 20% of people in Washington
state saying that they are not terribly
or not at all concerned about the corona
virus what does it look like to you on
the ground as you've been trying to
report on this election amid an outbreak
I think it's different specifically when
you're in these communities that are
impacted that you know where you know
somebody who knows somebody who may be
sick where you're on a plane in which
you know I sat next to people on my way
here coming back from San Francisco and
there's two parents and they were
talking about their kids hands were raw
because he was so worried about the
corona virus that he kept washing them
so I mean it's a little bit different
when you're here however people are not
so worried that it's getting in the way
of voting right a lot of this was
mitigated with the voting because of
course this is mail-in ballots but a lot
of people still have to come and drive
and drop it off today that takes some
courage especially when there's a public
safety department telling people who are
elderly or have pre-existing conditions
or just people in general to try to
avoid crowds it is not an easy thing to
do to come and stand in a line even
though it may be smaller because this is
a mail-in state a lot of this was
mitigated to for a number of reasons
it's one of the reasons why despite this
being an epicenter we could see record
turnout today I just spoke to an
election official here in Kent County
that's a third of the votes in this
state she is saying that we're already
beyond 40 percent participation that's
pretty huge Wow and one of the reasons
for that obviously is the mail-in bow
but another reason is that they've moved
up the date to March remember that in
years previous this thing would happen
months ahead and so it's more relevant
people realize that another thing of
course is that this is no longer a
caucus before the Democratic Party would
assign delegates based upon it being a
caucus can you imagine what a caucus
would look like in the middle of an
epicenter like this this would be
something that may be disastrous to the
election process and so people are now
deciding and getting those delegates by
primary and then the third reason is the
signaling that they've done I mean take
a look here you know you can see hand
sanitizer and wipes pretty much ever you
can go five feet without tripping on one
this they're calling a sanitizer station
all the workers are wearing gloves when
they're handling those ballots you will
see on the ballots some scotch tape
where you might normally not see it
because they are telling people not to
lick the envelopes there was a campaign
that went out that said healthier sick
do not lick and that's because they
don't know how long the virus lives on a
surface but it also signals to people
that they're taking care of this and so
I think people have been comfortable
with voting and the whole voting process
so far and they feel like it's important
in this state and I think that's a
feeling that they haven't had in a
little while and also despite the fact
that there is this virus I think people
feel an overwhelming pressure to do
something about their election system
this year and they have Casey yeah a
pretty remarkable set of what turned out
to be very lucky decisions that were
made in Washington consider the state of
things public health wise Steve
Patterson I thank you very much mark
Murray very quickly before we go to
break as I was looking at that map Idaho
Washington State both caucuses no longer
caucuses now primaries bad news for
Bernie Sanders that's right you know in
a way the 2016 race played out Hillary
Clinton benefited so much when you had
large african-american turnout and
electorates and was able to build up big
delegate margins Bernie Sanders
counteraction to that was doing really
well in caucus contests one of his
massive victories was in Washington
State this time it's a primary and in
fact in 2016 when Washington State held
a primary
two months later after the caucuses that
counted for delegates Hillary Clinton
actually end up winning that contest it
didn't count for the delegates but it
does show you the power of the caucuses
and how good they were for Bernie
Sanders and when you go to our primary
not as good potential most passionate
people are making the decisions that
seem to have broken at Bernie's way all
right when we come back we are looking
at heading into the top of the hour when
polls close in critical Michigan that is
the state we are all watching tonight to
see if Bernie Sanders can pull off an
upset the way he did in 2016 or if you
can't are there major signals that Joe
Biden is potentially on a cruise a path
to victory in this nomination we will be
right back don't go
[Music]
white terrorism and white supremacist
terrorism in this country is not some
weird analogue to al-qaeda or Isis it's
not some foreign thing that looks like
something that we've been fighting in
the war on terror it's actually
fundamentally as American as anything
and it is an existential threat to the
multiracial and pluralistic equal and
open democracy that we've been fighting
for in this country since people died on
the battlefield in a civil war everybody
Steve Carnegie back here at the big
board it's more than numbers these are
the states that are gonna win oh the
field they're probably gonna create a
front-runner it's what those numbers
mean ideologically you're seeing in this
first wait a very similar electorate to
what you saw in 2016 but age-wise this
is the big variable this is why we don't
allow Steve Kornacki to leave the
building this time of year nobody breaks
it down like Carnegie need your true
crime fix on the go Dateline episodes
are available as podcasts mysteries with
a twist from the true crime original Wow
listen to Dateline wherever you get your
podcasts you're watching NBC News now
we've got some breaking news this is my
god laughing brought more to the
caucuses news meet for your streaming
world live weekdays 3:00 to 11:00 p.m.
Eastern something new from Meet the
Press the Chuck podcast and insiders
take on politics and more for some of my
favorite reporters get it for free
wherever you get your podcast we've got
this fundamental thing about human
beings and we've got the way that we
constitute our politics and the danger
is that if our politics grow to tribal
they grow excessively tribal then we'll
lose this sort of way of talking why is
this happening with chris hayes
subscribe now
[Music]
good evening from Las Vegas from
Washington why should your judgment be
valued let's take my judgment against
anyone out there it's party unity your
concern right now or is simply winning
as many states as well it's both NBC
Nightly News with Lester Holt today
family is so exciting to be here we are
serving up a today cafe special
we have just loved seeing your beautiful
shining faces how sweet is that welcome
back you're watching NBC News now's live
coverage of our primary night in America
we are watching Michigan most closely
their polls are set to all close at 9:00
p.m. so we're gonna bring you the very
latest and greatest from our NBC News
decision desk at the top of the hour
when we have a sense of what we're ready
to say about that race but I want to I
want to bring in now Maria Teresa Kumar
who has been watching along with us she
is in San Francisco I I believe yeah
sure so what are you watching in in
Michigan as we head toward the pole
clothes here this is a state where and
we can't emphasize this enough you know
Bernie Sanders pulled out that upset win
in 2016 and where he had staked most of
his campaign at least this week trying
to prove that he again can pull out some
surprises exactly so what a couple
things in 2018 Michigan modernized their
elections so this is the very first time
that Michigan is allowing people to go
ahead and register to vote on the same
day and already the Secretary of State
is saying that they're seeing a nine
ninety five percent jump in mail-in
ballots you're seeing 7,000 people go in
and register today and cast a ballot so
it talks one about the modernization
it'll be interesting to see who's
participating what is that different mix
is it more young people is it more
people of color we're seeing we're
already starting to see a feed of
individuals in Dearborn which is Moke
mostly Muslim Americans coming in and
packing the place and waiting for hours
make sure that they are casting a ballot
so there's definitely some enthusiasm
well I will be looking forward like who
are they going for are the P the same
counties that Bernie won are they going
to stay Bernie or some of those folks
gonna siphon off and go for Biden
individuals that Hillary wasn't able to
bring over
and if it does happen all of a sudden
Casey that that is the case that some
individuals basically defect from the
Bernie camp to the Biden camp it starts
talking about this idea that he that
Biden is a unifier that he's bringing
people together and that people are
looking from
some sort of sense of stability
something that you mentioned before was
that people felt confident that in a
crisis Biden could step up and that has
a lot to do with the fact that he was
the vice president he understands how
government works in complex systems he
did head up the Obama it was one of the
people that was overseeing the Ebola
pandemic and in a time when people are
saying I need to trust my government to
get this right it would be interesting
to see how people are actually using how
the crew or coronavirus specifically is
impacting the road today the know that
makes a lot of sense Maria Theresa and I
carried an very quickly as we head
toward the top of the hour here in that
critical area in Michigan and actually
we're gonna it looks as though we only
have a handful of seconds left we're
gonna be able to make some sort of
projection here it is nine o'clock and
at this hour NBC News it can say that it
is too early to call the state of
Michigan but Joe Biden leads at this
hour at 9:00 p.m. as polls are closing
so that gives you a little bit of a
sense of the direction where this might
be headed although we have to be of
course very careful our decision that's
not quite ready to say one way or the
other whether Biden is going to win but
he does lead at this hour there's also a
good sign here and I'm looking at this
graphic it looks like we are seeing some
raw vote totals underneath those names
for Biden and Sanders that is good news
for what we have been watching kind of
going into this because there had been
some question about how quickly the
state of Michigan was going to count the
vote and we were actually waiting to
hear from Michigan's Secretary of State
at a news conference that is about to
start any minute but the fact that we
are seeing any any numbers at all are is
a good sign mark Murray and it is
significant that at this point where
we're already able to say the Biden is
ahead yeah so Casey my understanding is
when it was going to come from the slow
voting a lot of it had to do with the
absentees and so what we're kind of
seeing right now are like probably the
non absentee getting rid of it but yes
so let's recap just the past hour so far
you end up having Joe Biden projected
the winner in Mississippi in Missouri
leading in
in in Michigan right now in Casey what
I'm really interested in is the delegate
math and of course that's the mad that's
actually how you and Marc I'm gonna I'm
gonna pause you there for a second
because we do have some breaking news
NBC news can now project that Joe Biden
is going to win the state of Michigan as
you can see this is a huge it is 901 48
by our clock here in our Washington DC
studio this is not necessarily a race
that we were confident we would be able
to call at the close because we were
watching it if it's really tight race as
all of you know watching election
coverage it can go late into the night
that is not what is happening here
tonight this is a major blow for Bernie
Sanders who of course won the state of
Michigan over Hillary Clinton back in
2016 and had pinned his hopes for the
nomination or at least at this stage in
the fight I should say on the state of
Michigan and he is now going to lose it
to Joe Biden so mark let's go right back
to your delegate math yes and saying it
was a good night for Joe Biden the fact
that almost right after poll closing
Michigan goes for Joe Biden a great
night but here's the delegate math
situation and that's what actually leads
to get somebody to become the nominee
and on the best case scenario that Kerry
Dan and I were mapping out for Bernie
Sanders going into tonight say a narrow
victory in Michigan you hold tight in
Missouri Washington State you do pretty
well we actually had Joe Biden still
getting an 8 or 10 delegate net Hall out
of tonight best night for Joe Biden was
him getting some 60 or 70 net delegates
and that included a win actually a close
win in Michigan you know pretty good win
in Missouri decisive win in Mississippi
if this is going to be a humongous
victory in Michigan maybe actually have
to bump up that net delegate hall from
60 70 maybe 80 but when you this was
supposed to be Bernie Sanders good two
weeks in March and the next two weeks
are gonna get tougher and the delegate
math gets tougher for him yeah I mean
let's just try to to try and explain it
as simply as possible for viewers right
now we're on track for Biden to add
to his delegate lead over Bernie Sanders
and I think people at home are wondering
Kerry Dan at what point does Biden kind
of run away with this if this is the
trend are we I don't think we're able to
say that tonight but I'm hoping you have
a little bit more to back me up on that
but if it's not tonight next week we've
got a lot of contests across the Midwest
is that potentially a place where Biden
can take this to a place where Bernie
Sanders can't catch up or not well I
think we've got two things you've got
the narrative and then you've got the
actual delegate count one thing about
the narrative that's so important about
Michigan is that Donald Trump just
barely won the state of Michigan if
Bernie Sanders wanted to make the case
that I'm the person who can beat Donald
Trump and Joe Biden can't the fact that
we made a poll call closed 90 seconds
that are a you know called 90 seconds
after polls closed that's a very bad
sign for Bernie Sanders argument that
he's more electable but from a delegate
pound perspective next week does not
look great for Bernie Sanders either
Florida and Georgia both big states both
have high african-american populations
both have retiree populations obviously
Florida and Florida has more
conservative Latinos and elsewhere in
the country all three of those are
really bad for Bernie Sanders and could
pretend a huge delegate Hall for Joe
Biden which if we're not at that point
right now that he's running away with it
I think it's very difficult to see a
scenario without a radical change in the
narrative which Michigan certainly
doesn't give to senator Sanders anything
that is gonna change that trajectory
yeah I mean Beth Phooey let's be let's
be straight about this I mean this loss
in Michigan is a body blow to Bernie
Sanders campaign and you know I I
struggle to see how he comes back from
this for all the reasons that Kerry Dan
just laid out that he was never able to
change the narrative and you know Casey
I have a theory about this and it all
comes back to coronavirus I feel like
after last weekend Super Tuesday which
is admittedly a very bad night for
Bernie Sanders but he did have a week
potentially to turn it around he could
have figured out a way to sort of grab
back momentum in Michigan elsewhere sort
of mitigate some of those delegate
losses that were likely to see in these
states the coronavirus story sort of
froze everything in place it froze the
whole campaign in place it was very hard
for any of these candidates to
any sort of message out that wasn't
related to this illness we also started
seeing polling rollout and we've seen it
tonight in the exit polls as you
mentioned that overwhelmingly voters see
Biden rather than Bernie Sanders as the
as the president or the person that they
would like to see in manage a crisis so
it was just a one-two punch the fact
that the news cycle
sort of froze the way it did it didn't
allow Bernie Sanders to sort of like
reclaim any oxygen going forward into
these contests plus it's basically
exposed something that Burt bet voters
appear to be worried about with him that
he can't necessarily be the leader to
take on a crisis and we are in the
middle of a crisis and so leadership
through something like this matters much
more to voters right now than it might
have at another time ya know it's it's a
it's a good point and koreandj on here
just to underscore what Beth was saying
I mean Bernie Sanders did have this week
to try and figure out how to break
through and frankly they threw a lot at
it I mean Bernie Sanders was attacking
Joe Biden in his you know public
statements appearances also on the air
to the point that the Biden campaign you
know pushed back with an ad back against
Bernie Sanders I mean they were they
were taking steps to try and at least do
things that would catch I mean he did
interviews you know I mean he hasn't sat
for you know these kinds of interviews
he sat down with our Rachel Maddow for
an hour but at the end of the day I mean
it was subsumed by what we've all been
been talking about over the course of
the last week which is this escalating
challenge with coronavirus yes so what
we're seeing right now is momentum is
just a poof it's like a powerful
political force right now in this
primary and when South Carolina happened
with Jim Clyburn endorsing Biden and
that momentum of a Biden winning that's
that primary and then going into Super
Tuesday the momentum was behind Biden
and Bernie has never has not been able
to catch up has not been able to blunt
Biden's momentum and like like that what
was just said is that you really need to
have a message right because it's about
the narrative and it's about the
momentum and it's about the message and
Bernie's mess
was going after the establishment when
we're talking about a time where people
are saying we want to get rid of Donald
Trump we won
do we want to unify and also when he was
talking about the establishment it
sounded like he was attacking
african-american voters black voters for
going for four Biden because that's
basically how Biden got catapulted into
that momentum so Bernie was not able to
to really blunt what Biden was able to
do and his messaging was off and now
he's in the he's in the place where the
math is running away from him and you
know this was supposed to be Michigan
was supposed to be a state that he
needed to win to stop to stop that
momentum that Bain had ya know and and
clearly that is not not shaping him and
he abandoned the speech he was supposed
to give in Mississippi essentially
seeding the south to go campaign he
didn't go to South Michigan Alabama
that's that was a that really stood out
to me around the anniversary events for
Bloody Sunday now it's all it's all very
well taken I think that we can go now to
one of our one of our favorites
Mike mem Lee do I think he's made it to
Philadelphia yes he has yet another
scramble before for Mike mentally racing
from one state at to the next to try and
catch up with the latest turn in the
Biden campaign this time of course
because of coronavirus but I mean Mike
when I saw you in New Hampshire and they
were you know bailing out the last time
you had to do this they were you know he
announces he goes to a Dunkin Donuts he
has announces his campaign is pulling
out before polls have even closed to run
to South Carolina to try to get their
campaign back on track I think a lot of
us who saw him on the trail that day
felt as though you know as a candidate
he clearly was struggling he gave you
know the press conference that seemed
kind of you know long-winded to a lot of
us I realized you cover him every day so
it probably was not as surprising to you
but I mean the the change in fortune for
this campaign obviously reached a
crescendo on Super Tuesday but has just
not led up tonight
no that's absolutely right Casey and
some of this is about the fact that the
Biden campaign has always been rather
confident in their strategy even in the
face of an awful lot of doubters and a
lot of evidence frankly to suggest that
the path was not going to play out as
they hoped a lot of that strategy of
course has to do with african-american
voters and his strength among that
demographic with a which again is
showing to be just this one of the
stories of tonight and the other thing I
think is the Bernie Sanders effect and
clearly the fact that Bernie Sanders
came out of those first three contests
looking so strong especially after
Nevada coming over 50% of the votes
scared the moderate weighing the
establishment of the party whatever you
want to call them enough that they were
looking for a quick fix a quick
alternative and it was Biden's strength
in South Carolina helped by a good
debate performance of course the Jim
Clyburn endorsement so significant there
as well that he very quickly became the
candidate of choice now in looking at
the map tonight and the results so far
there's a lot of repeat from what we saw
last week in terms of how the week has
played out from the perspective of the
Biden team Mississippi they always knew
and felt confident in a good result
there Bernie Sanders four years ago at
his worst defeat there to Hillary
Clinton of any state Hillary Clinton had
over 80 percent of the vote there Biden
on track not necessarily to top that but
to do in the same ballpark running up
the score there in Mississippi even if
it's not a big delegate Hall was gonna
give the Biden team enough cushion that
even if the biggest prize of tonight
Michigan didn't go their way they would
probably still end up with more
delegates on the night but then in the
case of Michigan it's interesting Casey
the Biden team has not had enough money
to do their own polling and so they
really didn't know what to trust in
terms of even the public numbers that we
saw in the last few days they knew of
course what happened in 2016 to Hillary
Clinton there that she was tripped up
there late and by perhaps being caught
napping and Bernie Sanders able to upset
her in Michigan extend the knot for
nomination fight beyond that what they
did in Michigan was similar to what we
saw play out in Texas last week which
was put in a full effort there send
their surrogates there and ultimately
the candidate himself and do on Monday
night what they did last week which is
bring two of their former rivals in this
case Kamala Harris and Cory Booker for a
little bit of shock and awe treatment
doing a big splashy event on the eve of
the primary to send them into the
Election Day with a lot of momentum and
that's what turned out to be the same
result here as it was last week in Texas
Casey yeah Mike to turn more sobering
for a second and walk me through their
thinking on the coronavirus question I
mean obviously they canceled their rally
in Ohio moved the event to Philadelphia
he's now iunderstand planning a speech
tomorrow in Wilmington Delaware what
else is going on behind the scenes how
is the campaign grappling with this
crisis in a logistical way but also in
terms of you know part perhaps looking
ahead to a general election in a
situation where they're not campaigning
but they're also running against a
president who's potentially struggling
well in terms of just the day-to-day
life on the campaign trail we saw last
night as we arrived for that big rally
in Detroit something we haven't seen
which is volunteers at all of the
entrances squirting hand sanitizer into
everybody who walked into the doorway
we'd also know and you've seen it on the
campaign trail yourself Casey how much
Joe Biden really does relish the retail
aspect of campaign life and he seems
uncertain at times whether he can still
do that whether he can shake hands
whether he's doing the elbow bumps the
fist bumps he's doing a little bit of
everything at this moment so certainly
just in that very superficial ways
changing the campaign in that regard in
terms of what it means going forward the
Biden campaign had already announced a
schedule into next Monday for the events
leading into the next round of primaries
of course starting with where I thought
I would be with you tonight from
Cleveland Ohio and obviously they've
changed that he's going to give this
speech on Thursday now in Wilmington and
really it's a presidential moment for
the Biden campaign in a race in which
they've always felt that that was their
big advantage over Donald Trump looking
presidential in a party that desperately
wants to elect a president to defeat
Donald Trump and so that's sort of their
mindset going forward to seize the
moment just to reassure the public and
and to begin that contrast with
President Trump at a very early stage
all right Mike memo Lee thank you very
much my friend we will of course be
watching for mr. Biden to appear there
in Philadelphia but I think we are going
now to Chris chance
we find in Detroit Michigan where we are
waiting not to hear I think from state
officials Chris this clearly has broken
away you know in a more sort of sudden a
quick direction for Joe Biden than
perhaps we expected there had been a lot
of questions about how quickly they were
going to be able to get get things
counted and whether this would be a
tight race that we were counting into
the into the night that is not how it's
playing out yeah this would obviously be
a press conference that was a lot more
of love a lot more import and did we if
we had a one or two point race right
still there questions being asked about
why they're not going to get a final
vote count until probably sometime early
tomorrow afternoon that's what we're
waiting to hear from the Secretary of
State but look the bottom line seems to
be something called no reason absentee
voting it used to be you had to have
certain requirements to be an absentee
voter here now that goes away you simply
have to request a ballot and 990 3814
Michiganders did as of this morning and
a number could increase because they
could be returned by 8 o'clock tonight
eight hundred and 4216 had returned a
return rate of an impressive 81 percent
but then those votes need to be counted
and the simple fact of the matter is
that some voting places were able to
ramp up hire extra people they could
start tabulating those ballots as early
as this morning when the polls opened
they could start counting those votes
others simply didn't because they
couldn't afford to is it because that
they couldn't find people who would do
it
whatever the reason some of them may not
even have started to count those
returned ballots I can tell you that
earlier I was in Wayne County at a
suburban polling place outside of
Detroit the number of absentee ballots
there was up a hundred and eighty four
percent and they don't have just one
person counting them they count in teams
they want to make sure about the
integrity of the ballot so they have to
go through that check it and
double-check it before they put it into
a tabulator so that's what's causing
these delays look
whole point of this law KC this no
reason absentee ballot was to expand
voting right the whole idea was you
shouldn't have to jump through a lot of
Hoops to get an absentee ballot you
should just get the absentee ballot and
be able to put it in but they're seeing
now that the number of people who
requested it the number of people who
have returned it they haven't been able
to count them as quickly as maybe they
would have liked we're waiting for some
answers from the Secretary of State KC
Chris Jansing thank you very much for
that update certainly at the very least
this does not seem to be anywhere close
to what remains the major debacle of
this election cycle which was the caucus
in Iowa I'm panel let's talk through
some of these numbers we're getting in
here among Union voters actually I'm
going to push pause on that because
we're gonna go to Josh Letterman before
we get to our conversation about Union
voters Josh you are in Cleveland Ohio
although frankly we could talk about
this considering Ohio is next up on the
map that's why you're there this is
going to be the next slate of primaries
potentially a decisive one decisive
night considering how well Joe Biden has
done you know I think major questions
about whether Bernie Sanders will be
able to continue if he isn't able to get
a foothold in some of these Midwestern
states coming up next next week but
Union voters breaking overwhelmingly for
Biden tonight in Missouri 62 35 in
Michigan 54 to 42 over Bernie Sanders
what does that tell you about where
things may head in Ohio as we look ahead
yeah that's a great point
Casey Ohio sharing a lot of these
demographic similarities with a state
like Michigan which is why the Michigan
contest has been so closely looked at as
a harbinger of how these candidates are
going to do is this race moves more into
the Midwest into states like Ohio as
well as Illinois we're starting to see
the Sanders campaign try to lower
expectations obviously they saw some
from their own polling in the last
couple of days that this was not likely
to be in Michigan a repeat of the kind
of upset victory that Sanders was able
to
off four years ago just in the last hour
or so as Bernie Sanders was landing in
Vermont where he is going to spend the
night he put out a fundraising email
saying look we expect the results
tonight to get better for Bernie Sanders
the later into the night that it gets
and as the races start to move more out
to the west that's obviously a reference
to Washington state where the Sanders
campaign feels like they probably have
their best prospect tonight given all of
these other states that are not trending
their way but there's another reason
Casey why this Michigan loss as
projected by NBC News for Sanders is so
devastating and that's that from the
beginning every time Bernie Sanders has
been asked the question what is the math
that gets a socialist elected president
in America he's gone over and over again
back to this argument about how he is
going to be able to bring in these new
first-time voters young voters fresh
into the process if Bernie Sanders is
not able to do that in a state like
Michigan a battleground state where
Democrats are going to need that high
turnout come November it's really going
to dent his ability to argue that he is
an electable candidate against Donald
Trump especially as we see these exit
polls showing over and over again the
Democratic primary voters right now seem
to be looking at Joe Biden as the unity
candidate that they do think has that
prospect of defeating the president ya
know it's a very it's a very good point
at Josh Letterman in Cleveland for us
thank you and Shawn Thomas I just I keep
going back to so you know I covered
Bernie Sanders on the plane and in 2016
and you know I remember being with him
in Michigan I remember in fact mark
Murray was on a conference call telling
everyone how surprised they were and
fair enough bowling reflected that but
being on the ground you know I mean I I
remember walking into these arenas and
thinking there is something really going
on here and I think you know I was not
terribly surprised but that came at a
point you know midway through the
primary cycle and it gave his campaign
new life and he ultimately went on to
stay in even though further contests
kind of eroded that and eventually it
was clear Hillary Clinton was going to
win this nomination I think
my question sitting here right now is
what does Bernie Sanders decide to do
and at what point does he is he forced
to make some tough decisions it may be
too early sitting here now but by next
Tuesday it may be very clear he needs to
make a different decision I'm not
convinced that he's gonna be getting out
of this race before the convention which
makes it you know when you're framing an
argument about beating Donald Trump
that's it's it seems like a tough
position to me there's a really tough
position I think the one thing that I'm
curious about one how much money does he
have and I don't know that off the top
of my head and I think that determines
something about how long he can stay in
and to where the splits go so right now
what we're saying is sorry I'm looking
at one of the screens they're both
viable in Michigan right so he will get
some of the votes there right now most
likely to be true throughout simply
because of the nature of a 50 one-on-one
man-on-man race exactly but also that
that the delegate math can still he's
still going to pick up the delegates the
problem is the media message will be Joe
Biden won Michigan when Bernie Sanders
lost it last time Joe Biden runs away
with Mississippi because of the
african-american vote so the so what is
the winning story he can tell coming out
of this that lasts him until we get to
the Florida vote which you've already
said doesn't look great for Bernie
Sanders and if he can't figure out what
that message is beyond I can beat Donald
Trump and also I want to overhaul the
entire health care system then I think
you start to really think about what
what are you going to say in this next
week right and I can't figure out what
that message is if all of those other
messages are coming from the Joe Biden
campaign and he is able to pick up his
fundraising because the momentum is with
them there's a really big difference
between now and 2016 in 2016 it was an
open race the Republicans are running
their competitive primary Democrats were
on there as well this time around
there's an incumbent president Donald
Trump in office and there are a lot of
Democrats who want to turn to the
general election as soon as possible I
do think there's gonna be less patience
for somebody saying hey I'm gonna go on
the convention with all of my delegates
even though I do think that that's
probably the most likely situation for
Bernie Sanders and look we've been on
the air for now just a little bit over
an hour on my Twitter feed there are
already major Democratic group
like Priorities USA Action guys sees a
lot of tweets saying the primary season
it's over the math is done it's
important for everyone to come to the
table and start getting behind Joe Biden
he's going to be our nominee some people
might say well oh that is wait people
might say that is way too early on the
other hand I do think we were going to
end up seeing this kind of sentiment
play out in the days and weeks ahead for
from Democrats and Bernie Sanders a bit
kind of boxing itself into a new
position in this in this cycle he
absolutely did because at the NBC debate
Chuck Todd our big boss asked the
question of everybody on stage should
the candidate with the most pledged
delegates going into the convention get
the nomination and Bernie Sanders was
the one who said yes everybody else said
let the process play out Bernie Sanders
said yes at the time it sure as heck
looked like he was going to be that
person right yeah I was gonna go to the
commitment floor the plurality and
everyone else is gonna be behind it by
the way that was a change in his
position from where he was in 2016 in
2016 he wanted to fight it out he wanted
to fight for super-delegates he wanted
to do some horse trading and somehow get
that plurality going into the into the
convention and so he has bucked and
boxed himself up in a way that now he's
either going to have to reverse a
position that he's already reversed or
say you know what I'm behind and and Joe
Biden is the one with the most with the
plurality going into Milwaukee yeah I
mean it really I mean I think you know
covering Bernie Sanders the man I mean
there were a lot of people who were
trying to convince him to drop out of
that race and nobody could and so I
think really he and possibly his wife
Jane are the only two people that are
ever going to answer this question
despite any outside pressure that as
Mark Murray was saying is already is
already building all right we are going
to take a little bit of a break but when
we come back much more analysis as we
wait for more states still to come on
this map tonight and more
a deeper look at the state of Michigan
and how Joe Biden managed to win there a
major win for Joe Biden tonight we'll be
right back
[Music]
today family is so exciting to be here
we are serving up a today cafe special
we have just loved seeing your beautiful
shining faces how sweet is that
need your true crime fix on the go
Dateline episodes are available as
podcasts mysteries with a twist from the
true crime original Wow
listen to Dateline wherever you get your
podcasts you're watching NBC News now
we've got some breaking news this is the
Lions got laughing brought more to the
caucuses news meet for your streaming
world live tweet days 3:00 to 11:00 p.m.
Eastern
[Music]
we've got this fundamental thing about
human beings and then we've got the way
that we constitute our politics and the
danger is that if our politics grow to
tribal then we'll lose this sort of way
of talking why is this happening with
chris hayes subscribe now
[Music]
welcome back this is a live look at the
podium where in just moments from now we
expect to see Joe Biden the former vice
president of the United States now of
course running for president and having
a banner night as NBC News projects that
he will win primary contests in
Mississippi Missouri and Michigan still
watching for Idaho Washington State and
North Dakota other states voting tonight
but that we have not projected quite yet
we will bring that to you as soon as we
get it but we're gonna go live now to
Shaquille Brewster who is on the road
with Bernie Sanders in Burlington
Vermont an unexpected stop for them
tonight
Shaq Bernie Sanders also was supposed to
be in Cleveland holding a rally that got
canceled because of concerns about
coronavirus and I think the reality here
as these results have rolled in Shaq we
were just talking about this around the
table is what kind of pressure is there
on Bernie Sanders to make a decision
about his you know staying in this race
I mean I covered him long enough to know
that he'll be very angry to learn that
anyone is having this conversation at
all at this stage but there are already
top Democrats in the party saying hey it
is time for us to come together behind
Joe Biden what are you hearing
Vice President Biden it was earlier
today when he was in Detroit where he
was asked is Michigan a must-win State
for you and what does it say if you
don't win the state of Michigan and you
heard him give that sit that standard
response that he has which is you can't
read into any one state that it's about
the process that it's more than just any
one state but Casey without it now this
isn't a big loss for senator Sanders as
you mentioned first he was supposed to
be in Cleveland Ohio tonight that was
where his election night celebration was
going to be or election night rally
instead he rerouted to Burlington
Vermont we still don't know if we'll
hear from him tonight his campaign is
not giving us an answer either way but
we do know he will be in Burlington he
was scheduled to be in Burlington after
going to Cleveland anyways but he will
be here
and we'll wait to see if we hear any
comment from senator Sanders I think
it's also important to kind of set
expectations and let you know what the
campaign was saying as we were coming
into tonight I spoke with a senior aide
just last night and just kind of laid
out the map what states are you looking
at and I was told the states that they
felt hopeful about key they didn't say
optimistic the states they felt hopeful
about where Washington Idaho and of
course the state of Michigan Michigan
being the big prize there was symbolic
significance as this aide told me it
goes into that key electability argument
that you hear from Sanders that he can
bring out the energy and excitement
needed to beat Donald Trump in those key
Midwestern states tonight losing in
Michigan losing it and having it be
called about 90 seconds after polls
closed in that state it was definitely
Casey a major blow for this campaign and
Shaq I mean what what is the path
forward if we if we push ahead to next
week I mean obviously we're still
carefully counting the delegates here
the the math is not uncomplicated it
could potentially take a long time for
either of these candidates to rack up a
majority of pledged delegates or even a
substantial clear plurality is senator
Sanders I'm prepared to go all the way
to the convention with this do you think
based based on your reporting and
conversations with the campaign it
depends on how you look at it Casey I
mean we know and you should you know
this from covering him in 2016 he
definitely has the financial resources
that is not a problem for this campaign
you saw that fundraising email that went
out from his campaign manager kind of
warning and cautioning his supporters
and saying hey the results are not going
to look good early on but wait until we
get out west those results will look
better don't listen to the media don't
listen to what the pundits are saying
you saw that messaging so it's not going
to be a question of whether or not he
has the resources he doesn't have to
call up donors or calm down donors after
a couple of bad nights two bad nights in
a row Super Tuesday and then coming into
tonight the question now turns to that
that box that he nearly put himself in
when he was in a much different position
and I heard you guys talking about this
earlier but it started with that debate
stage at our debate in Las Vegas where
he said
the candidate with the plurality of
pledged delegates even if a candidate
doesn't get the majority the candidate
leading or who has the most delegates
should be the party's nominee because it
would be mayhem it would be like robbing
robbing the voter say or done doing the
will of the voters that was the point
that he made and if we are starting to
get to a point where Vice President
Biden and as you mentioned it's early we
still need to see the delegates come in
the campaign is always quick to point
out that even in California state that
we didn't call yet there are still more
delegates to come in for senator Sanders
forth from what they believe but it goes
into the idea of once these
vice-president Biden is getting a lead
that is insurmountable it could be
trouble for them Casey for sure and that
that plurality box is an interesting one
for Bernie Sanders to be in and I think
it is important to point out Shack that
these two men are gonna face off on the
debate stage in Arizona coming up this
week I think I personally would be
surprised if if Bernie Sanders decided
to do anything dramatic before having a
chance to do that one-on-one of course
there's gonna be no audience there
because of coronavirus Shack Brewster
thank you it's always my friend it is
great to see you stay safe on the trail
and keep us posted if we I think we're
gonna hear at all from from Bernie
Sanders tonight but let's go now to our
Vaughn Hilliard he is in Missouri
Florissant Missouri we were able to call
Missouri for Joe Biden earlier at
tonight Vaughn we've been seeing the the
vote tallies a ticking upward there what
else are you keeping an eye on as this
night unfolds really just a banner
another banner one for Joe Biden here
you and Chuck were just talking about
looking at that map beyond here in
Missouri when I was talking to voters
there is a sense of frustration about
where Missouri now sees itself on the
electoral map at one point they'd like
to consider themselves a purple state a
place that could elect a Democrat but
what they've seen in recent years here
Casey
is Republicans only expand their expand
their support here in the state and
that's where the you know to voters
earlier that I talked to they said it's
time the Joe Biden needed to be their
pick because they believed that he was
the individual that could make best the
case to go and win over more of those
white
moderate voters here in the state and I
you know you guys were talking about the
map there I'll go back to congresswoman
to leave from the Detroit area when
we're talking about Michigan and there
was a lot of conversation over
what would a Bernie Sanders nomination
look like what was his path to victory a
lot of that had to do with support that
he was finding from the likes of
congresswoman Talib who represents the
greater Detroit area Wayne County those
are one of those counties Casey that saw
a significant drop-off in voter turnout
in 2016 that you could well make the
case if that County had turned out at
the same levels it's the most diverse
county in the state it turned out that
that same levels as it had in 2012 for
Barack Obama that Hillary Clinton may
have well won the state of Michigan but
also that one week ago it was in
Minnesota Joe Biden one Minnesota and
his congresswoman Omar another backer of
Bernie Sanders who thought that they
could help put Bernie Sanders over the
top in Minnesota another state that is
up for grabs
come November and I think that's when
you're looking at the map for Bernie
Sanders and Joe Biden
you know if Bernie Sanders wants to make
the case that he's the best position to
beat Donald Trump one would think that
you need to be able to win in places
like Minnesota in Michigan and I think
that's why if you look one week from now
Casey to Arizona it's pivotal
Joe Biden at least according to polling
seems to have a pretty sturdy lead in
Florida which will also be voting next
Tuesday but when you look at the course
of this next week that debate of course
will be taking place in Phoenix and then
Tuesday Arizona voters will be going to
the polls to decide between Bernie
Sanders and Joe Biden and Arizona this
2020 race in November Casey could come
down to Arizona and whether it goes blue
Hillary Clinton beat Bernie Sanders
there four years ago but there is one
subsection of voters that have really
stuck behind Bernie Sanders Joe Biden
has suggested that he's building the
Obama coalition but there are Hispanic
voters Latino voters that have continued
to stick by Bernie Sanders you looked in
Nevada Bernie Sanders won about 50%
according to Nevada entrance polling you
look at California Bernie Sanders won
about 55% of Latino voters in California
so when you're looking at the map ahead
for Bernie Sanders if he wants to hold
on he's got to continue to have a
stronghold of support among Latino
voters and if you're Joe Biden you see
Tuesday in Arizona is that opportunity
to really build up that Obama coalition
by drawing in a greater share of Latino
voters and being able to make the case
that not only does he have an expansive
diverse electorate of support but also
that he'd be able to win the likes of
Arizona against Donald Trump next
November FairPoint Vaughn Hilliard thank
you very much my friend while you and I
were talking it sounds like Andrew yang
former presidential candidate just
endorsed Joe Biden so again this race
has been moving very fast if you are
just joining us you are watching a big
night in America we are covering
primaries across the map we have
projected that Joe Biden is the winner
in Missouri's primary he is also the
projected winner in Mississippi and the
projected winner in the critical state
of Michigan this is what we were
watching most closely the biggest
delegate prize on the map but also one
incredibly important to the overall arc
of this primary this is a big night for
Joe Biden the former vice president
whose campaign was brought back to life
in South Carolina possibly by Jim
Clyburn depending on on who you believe
went on to a major rally on Super
Tuesday after winning endorsements from
Pete Buddha judge and Amy Klobuchar who
appeared with him on stage in Texas
turned into a huge night for him he has
since gone on to roll up a lot of those
states on Super Tuesday Mike Bloomberg
also dropping out of this race Elizabeth
Warren bowing out as well she's really
the only major candidate that hasn't
gotten in line yet behind a Joe Biden so
mark Murray you were talking already
about what you've seen on Twitter among
other Democrats the conversation really
moving to say okay hey guys we got
Donald Trump to take on in the fall we
better start doing it right now this is
a party that's beginning to coalesce and
maybe it actually takes over a two or
three
period to finally get there for
everybody and of course you know I would
fully expect Bernie Sanders to continue
to campaign when people ended up saying
even you know well do you have the
plurality of Delegates knowing the
Bernie Sanders from 2016 and I'm saying
well New York's gonna be voting in April
let's see what New Yorkers have to say
and he'll go on to contest but Casey I
just want to it's been a remarkable
month and I remember being on the set
from in Manchester New Hampshire when we
were with Chuck and Kerry and Joe Biden
as you mentioned to Mike Emily he left
he went out and Chuck Todd had this
great point on what happened to
middle-class Joe Biden you know as far
as like you know the person who if you
can win Scranton Pennsylvania you should
be able to win places like Manchester
New Hampshire and all of a sudden with
the endorsement from Jim Clyburn I
actually think the second-place finish
that he had in Nevada the then the
campaign getting the the candidate field
getting much smaller yeah we're in the
situation where a month later it looked
like Joe Biden was dead he is now just
steamrolling through this primary I
don't know when necessarily Bernie
Sanders can stop them yeah I don't I
mean I carried an you're you're you're
looking you know I realized like every
Tuesday for however many weeks you're
like it's very organized around what
primary all the Google replace where
Bernie Sanders has a chance to change
this narrative or not you know I think
Vaughn Hilliard had a good point about
Latino voters that that is a group that
Bernie Sanders did make a shift with he
new in 2016 hit a problem with black
voters he also had a problem with Latino
voters with black voters he has not been
able to address that we've seen that in
primary after primary but Latino voters
we did see him able to do it it's it's
interesting Todd we've been talking a
lot about union workers tonight we had
that conversation in Nevada as well
about the culinary Workers Union which
was a hugely powerful union in Nevada
that sort of fought against Bernie
Sanders at least from their leadership
perspective rank-and-file did support
him but that's also a majority Latino
group and he's been able and in Texas as
well to do well with those voters they
are young they are ascendant in the
Democratic coalition I think if he's
able to prove
and maybe Arizona Florida's that the
Hispanic population Ford is very
different than Arizona if he's able to
say look Joe Biden has a weak spot here
with Latino voters and and Biden isn't
even able to bring them into the fool
despite all the other momentum he has
Sanders will be able to make a point
there for sure that I think will be
important and might highlight a problem
that Democrats have going into a general
election if Joe Biden is the nominee but
as far as the way the math is stacking
up and and voter Democratic voters also
in 2016
didn't have a large field of X
candidates who go west behind Hillary
Clinton this time around there's a whole
lot of people who have high name
recognition among Democratic primary
voters buy-in and state and maybe they
really liked Pete Budaj it or they liked
Amy Klobuchar or they liked injurying
and now they've all been signaled to
everybody get in the boat and row
together I do I do want to give Bernie
Sanders a little benefit of the doubt I
know 2016 and how that race played out
and watched it you know intimately but
the difference in going back to this as
Donald Trump is actually the President
of the United States and I think that is
a factor that that Bernie Sanders will
win and if you believe everything Bernie
Sanders has said about president Trump
and everything the Democratic Party is
saying and what the constituents are
saying about beating him
I find I think he will seriously have to
consider if tonight doesn't go well and
next week doesn't go well what does him
staying in do to the overall race and I
know he's very clear on what he wants to
do for this country and how he wants to
remake things but he's a he's a senator
he's a United States Senator and he
under and yes he's an independent center
I get it I know we'll see I mean we'll
see I mean Trump has changed a lot of a
politician and it might change Bernie
Sanders a little bit too maybe
shoshanna's point earlier today the
campaign manager for the Bernie Sanders
campaign fashio here ended up retweeting
the RNC's digital director on a video of
Joe Biden confronting that Union worker
today in Michigan and it almost seemed
as if you end up having the Trump
campaign and the RNC teaming up with the
Bernie Sanders campaign and one of the
dangers that you're gonna hear from a
lot of Democrats is say hey Bernie don't
give
the Trump in the RNC any kind of
ammunition that's actually gonna be one
of the cross pressures he also
explicitly has ads that make that
accusation that say Bernie Sanders these
attacks are not helping it's time for us
to come together ya know that that was
the main the main kind of message we saw
from from the Biden camp this week some
of it lost behind behind coronavirus
news but if he did see that at it said
exactly what Kerry was pointing out it
bets elite let me let me pick up on a
point Kerry was making earlier to this
question of Latino voters but
specifically this question of Florida
and you know she referenced the fact
that obviously the the the Hispanic
voting population in Florida is a unique
and special one and has has different
cross pressures than some of the other
Hispanic populations in states across
the country but what I'm wondering as we
watch this and we we look at what Bernie
Sanders is gonna decide to do how his
campaign is gonna move forward he made
some comments in that sixty minutes
interview about Fidel Castro he said yes
he was terrible but he had literacy
programs and those comments were not
received very well by many in the Cuban
American population by many Democrats
frankly I wonder now if looking back
that that was a bigger mistake than even
we realized at the time because it
potentially seated the entire state of
Florida where perhaps he could have
competed more aggressively with Joe
Biden what's your take you know bringing
up Fidel Castro sounds like old people
talk to a lot of younger people and even
a younger latina is younger Cubans you
know Casey we've been looking at the
state of Florida for so long and that
key Latino vote there that is so strong
and powerful and of course the Cuban
vote kind of dominated it for years over
the course of time we've seen that
Latino vote of Florida changed quite a
lot you're seeing more people coming in
from Central America you're seeing a lot
more Puerto Ricans in Florida you're
seeing more Mexican in Florida so that
sort of Cuban influence has diluted a
little bit but let's face it it's still
there and it's still powerful even if
you're Cuban don't sort of react
reflexively to the mention of Fidel the
way their parents did it's still not a
very safe route to go in the state of
Florida which is already a state that is
just sort of teetering on the knife's
edge between Democrats
it always comes down to just a few
thousand votes in Florida in this
enormous state in the general election
so any little thing is going to matter
in this case this wit this is a
vulnerability has been a vulnerability
for senator sanders praising the the
Cuban dictator in in a way that is going
to sort of bring back a lot of very
negative and anxious feelings for
particularly that older crowd of Cubans
who still are very very influential so
yeah it was not perhaps the best move
there I mean obviously senator Sanders
has been looking at the other states
next week next Tuesday looking perhaps
for a win in Ohio something this little
bit more favorable to his coalition or
the coalition he thought he had Arizona
as Vaughn Hilliard was pointing out
where he does have supportive of Mexican
but Mexican Americans and other Latino
voters in that state but look we saw the
coalition that he really was had hoped
to build there and a Michigan so similar
to Ohio not come through for him tonight
so it's really hard to see how that is
going to really change much of anything
for him next week and meanwhile he's got
this this step this deficit in Florida
you know it's it's a very good point and
clean job here I'm curious you you sit
at a very interesting intersection as
this party grapples with what to do many
of MoveOn orgs members very liberal
we've seen a lot of very liberal voters
backing Bernie Sanders on the other hand
we've seen african-american voters
overwhelmingly going for Joe Biden so I
mean my question to you you know sitting
here watching tonight unfold do you
think that this race is over you know it
certainly is an uphill battle for for
Bernie Sanders now I mean he needed like
I said before needed to have a win a big
win in Michigan at Michigan was the
state tonight that had the most
delegates and we knew that he was going
to do that Biden was gonna do well in
Missouri Biden was gonna do well in in
Mississippi in in a way that he would
get overwhelming delegates and so this
is about the math you know this is like
I said before this is math narrative and
to some extent message and and Bernie's
unfortunately is behind
behind the 8-ball on it and you know I
was just thinking about what Mark was
saying about where Biden was just just a
couple weeks ago and Biden did have an
operation he didn't have any money and
his firewall was South Carolina and
black voters came out and gave him that
momentum Bernie Sanders has in in
February where it raised
44 million dollars he has money to go
right to to the convention and he had an
amazing operation and so I think once
again voters are being very clear on
what they want they want to stop the
madness
that is coming from the Trump
administration and it's not that they
don't like Bernie it's just that they
are they have decided to coalesce behind
one candidate and it's going to be very
difficult for Bernie to win this math or
get back on track well even as I'm
listening to you make that series of
points all good ones you think ahead to
the fact that Democrats because of the
previous state if Joe Biden's campaign
you have a lot of work to do to get the
Biden campaign up to speed to run
against Donald Trump yeah it's a lot of
work and look Biden has been able to
raise some money online since his South
Carolina win and so that'll be that'll
be good I'm sure they will be making
some changes to their to their campaign
I wouldn't be surprised if we see
movement in the next couple of days and
they will get on track and and try to
try to have an operation that can take
on Donald Trump we have to remember and
you know this Casey Donald Trump has
raised a ton of money and he has had no
opponent on his side and they are
flooding and Facebook and online and
they have a real operation an operation
that he didn't have in 2016 so this
won't be an uphill battle for Democrats
whoever is the nominee all right I'm
making a mental note about what you said
Kareem about potential changes just in
the coming days absolute perspective
as always we're gonna turn now to Chris
Jansing who is in Michigan where we've
just gotten an update from election
officials there Chris what have we
learned
well back in 2018 they actually amended
the state constitution the whole idea
Casey was to make it easier for people
to vote so they did two main things
there were some hiccups today let's
start with the first one which is
same-day voter registration something
again Michigan had never had before
13,000 people showed up at their local
clerk's office to register same-day
here's the key half of those came after
4:30 so essentially in the last three
and a half hours of voting all these
people showed up at clerk's offices to
register and then vote many of them
according to the Secretary of State a
short time ago these offices might
handle 30 a day and they were getting
hundreds of people they anticipated a
lot of people might want to same-day
register they don't have control about
how these offices staffs up so it's
gonna be definitely a lesson for them
because they simply weren't able to
handle the numbers that they thought
they might be able to also because of
that you've had some really long lines
many of these first-time voters were
young people so listen to the places
where they had these problems and you'll
know what I'm talking about Casey
Kalamazoo Ann Arbor East Lansing
obviously big college towns Grand Rapids
and Dearborn
as well and so they have people there
like we've seen at some other places
handing out pizza but for many of them
then the wait was as long as two hours
the second part of that of this 2018
change in the Constitution you and I
talked about a little earlier and that
is no reason absolutely balloting that
just means that you can get an absentee
ballot for any reason at all they got
requests for almost a million of them
about 800,000 came back but the state
legislature decreed you couldn't start
counting them until this morning and if
you didn't have the staff to to do that
to start counting this morning if you
didn't hi
extra people were able to find extra
people to hire you haven't gotten your
numbers in yet they don't expect to have
all of these numbers in until sometime
early tomorrow afternoon look big
picture the Secretary of State wanted to
pay a very positive picture of what we
did she said this is a new day for
democracy that what they wanted to
happen happened more people came out to
vote more first time voters came out to
vote but she also acknowledged that time
November they're gonna have to figure
out how to work out some of these kinks
Casey yeah no fair enough
all right Chris Jansing thank you very
much always great to see you as we
approach the top of the hour we want to
check back in with Mike meme' Lee in
Philadelphia who is waiting for Joe
Biden expected to give remarks later on
tonight Mike since we last spoke I mean
what is the sense behind the scenes in
the Biden campaign about how this race
goes forward he sells about one-on-one
debate with Bernie Sanders then another
set of contests coming up next Tuesday
do they feel as though this race should
be over or what's the posture yeah Casey
a Biden advisor just telling me that
when they had mapped out the calendar
from the very beginning this was a night
that they looked at as one of the
toughest ones for them especially given
that what we saw in terms of the results
in 2016
obviously there are some primary states
tonight that were caucus states so the
results are a bit skewed there but you
look at a Michigan you look at a
Washington State and you look at in
North Dakota and they were prepared to
take some delegate hits tonight so far
as this advisor puts it they're three
for three and potentially gonna gain
more especially on the delegate front as
the night goes on in terms of that what
we're gonna see tonight we're operating
Casey on Biden time we had thought we
were gonna hear from him potentially at
around 9:30 we haven't seen him arrive
just yet they didn't have obviously
tonight the kind of crowd they wanted to
have in Cleveland Ohio voters get a jump
start on the next round of primaries but
it is interesting the room has filled
here actually with a lot of stuff from
Biden headquarters they've come over
here to the Constitution Center for what
is going to be a victory lap and an
important opportunity for them to
message the road ahead which is that
Biden as he's been saying all week is
the one who is driving the turnout and
the enthusiasm among Democrats not
Bernie Sanders
all right Mike mentally thank you very
much your many years of covering the
former vice president and his various
campaigns really paying off for all of
our our viewers tonight and into the
next month's of this campaign thank you
my friend all right some final thoughts
here as we head towards 10 o'clock mark
Murray the delegate race seems like it's
headed in Biden's direction when do you
think we'll know whether he's got this
essentially in the bag the past two
weeks couldn't have gone better for Joe
Biden these were actually supposed to be
Bernie Sanders stronger weeks when you
looked at Super Tuesday this what we're
calling above-average Tuesday is Super
Tuesday too and then all of a sudden as
Kerry was mentioning next week
you know unep having Florida and Ohio
you end up having Arizona and then the
next week after that is George and
Florida and Georgia in particular could
be very very tough one of the thing I'm
looking for Joe Biden in his speech and
also going forward is how does he
address the future you know you even
that when he gift he got the
endorsements from Kamala Harris and Cory
Booker he talked about a bridge but to
me one of the things instead of like the
comforting person that you can have from
Joe Biden which seems to be working well
the what is missing is what is the
future end up looking like for the party
carried on we got 20 seconds I feel like
we're gonna have a lot of conversations
about who Joe Biden might pick as his
vice presidential nominee marks point
there how do you speak to the future how
do you say yes I'm going to be if he is
elected president would be the oldest
president inaugurated but it can also
reach out to young voters particularly
those who love Bernie Sanders and aren't
so enthusiastic about Joe Biden right
and balancing that with reaching out to
disaffected Republicans to Shawn in
turnout seems to be going in an upwards
direction when with Michigan is compared
to 2016 and I will say even with what
Chris Jansing was saying about the
difficulty of counting the votes and
first-time voters showing up and doing
that today making it easier to vote
means you have a more representative
electorate voting so voters voting is
not a bad thing never a bad thing in
this great democracy this has been a
great evening
with all of you mark Murray carried
Seana Thomas thank you for spending a
couple hours with us Karine jean-pierre
Beth phooey in New York thanks to both
of you as well again we have been
covering a big night for Joseph
Robinette biting he has pulled ahead of
Bernie Sanders we projected three wins
for him some more states still to come
stay with NBC News now for continuing
coverage throughout the evening
[Music]
you